Core-shell structured BN/PPS composite ﬁlm for high thermal conductivity with low ﬁller concentration 

BN/PPS core-shell structured pellet and its composite ﬁlm were primarily fabricated via a particle coating method using an adhesive layer. A thermally conductive composite was fabricated using BN-coated PPS by hot pressing. The core-shell structure did not collapse after hot pressing and formed a well-connected particle chain. Moreover, the BN/PPS composite prepared using the proposed method has a higher thermal conductivity compared to the conventional composite fabrication method, melt mixing and powder mixing, at the same ﬁller concentration because the connected particle chain acts as a contin- uous heat ﬂow channel. Moreover, the thickness of the particle layer can be controlled by controlling the viscosity of the adhesive epoxy layer using acetone as the solvent. We fabricated BN/PPS pellets with various BN layer thickness. A 1:0.3 wt ratio of epoxy and acetone has the highest thermal conductivity enhancement ratio compared to the melt mixed composite. We fabricated a composite using the hybrid method; the polymer core was prepared via melt mixing and the BN particles were coated on this core. The BN particle in the core and the outer layer has a synergetic effect, forming a 3-dimensional heat ﬂow path, leading to outstanding thermal conductivity with a only small amount of ﬁller. 

1. Introduction


In the last decade, polymer-based thermally conductive com- posite materials for heat dissipation have been studied extensively. With decreasing geometric dimensions and increasing power output of electronic devices, heat dissipation becomes one of the most important performance criteria [1,2]. It is well known that there is an exponential relationship between the reliability of an electronic device and the operating temperature of the junction, where a small difference in the operation temperature can result in a two-fold reduction in the lifespan of a device. Therefore, it is crucial for the heat generated from the devices to be dissipated as quickly and effectively as possible to maintain the operating tem- peratures of the device at the desired level [3,4]. 

Many studies have been conducted to develop novel thermal conductive composite materials based on thermoplastic polymers such as polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP) or thermoset polymers such as epoxy [5e7]. These traditional polymers, regardless of their low cost, corrosion resistance, light weight, 

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2016.08.024 0266-3538/© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. 

electric insulation, and ease of processing, can hardly fulﬁll the thermal dissipation requirement because their thermal conduc- tivity is quite low. For example, the thermal conductivity of epoxy is (cid:1)1. By the addition of ﬁllers to plastic, the only around 0.2 W m thermal behavior of polymers can be increased remarkably. Such composite plastics with higher thermal conductivity than materials without ﬁllers are becoming an increasingly important area of study because of their wide range of applications. Higher thermal conductivity can be achieved using suitable electrically insulating ﬁllers such as alumina, boron nitride (BN), and aluminum nitride (AlN) or other ceramic powders as ﬁller. Among them, several studies have used a-phased hexagonal BN (h-BN) as the ﬁller because of it highest thermal conductivity, chemical resistivity, and attractive anisotropic property. These properties make BN an attractive material for many applications, e.g., as refractory mate- rials, lubricants, optical coatings, and ceramic composites [8]. 

It is well known that in the preparation of the polymer-based thermally conductive composite materials, one of the most important issues is the dispersal of the thermal conductive ﬁllers in the polymer matrix [9]. Several methods have been used such as powder mixing, solution mixing, roll mixing, and melt mixing. Among them, melt mixing is a conventional composite fabrication method for thermoplastics because it is simple and continuous and 

results in homogenous particle dispersion; further, it enables easy mass production and orients the particle along the injection ﬂow. Despite these advantages, like the other methods, it results in the ﬁllers being uniformly distributed in the continuous polymer ma- trix, and a high thermal conductivity cannot be obtained without high loading of ﬁller. Generally, extremely high ﬁller loading, typically larger than 50 vol%, is required to achieve high thermal conductivity when these conventional composite fabrication methods are used. However, one of the major drawbacks of a composite with such a high ﬁller loading is the deterioration of the mechanical properties of the polymer because a hard ﬁller material, such as ceramic particles, acts as defects in the polymer matrix. Moreover, these high ﬁller loadings reduce the processability, which is a major advantage of the polymer matrix because such a high volume fraction of the ﬁller increases the viscosity of the composite signiﬁcantly [10,11]. Viscosity is a very important factor in the melt mixing method in which an extruder is used. In order to realize homogenous mixing of a highly viscous mixture, very high shear forces are required, which causes damage and cracks in the relatively soft particles. Therefore, a novel approach is required with low ﬁller loading for a high ﬁller concentration system and for realizing high thermal conductivities. 

Recently, various interesting methods have been reported for achieving a high thermal conductivity with a low ﬁller concentra- tion. Yoo group reported that aluminum nitride particles were vertically oriented by applying an external electric ﬁeld [12]. Our group reported the vertical alignment of BN composite particles by applying an external magnetic ﬁeld [13]. These particle orientation methods can yield particle connections according to the heat ﬂow path and achieve signiﬁcantly high thermal conductivity. However, the industrial application of these ﬁller orientation methods was difﬁcult because of complicated process steps and difﬁculty in applying an external force. Huang group reported that an in situ growth method has high performance but cannot be applied in practical applications because of the high process cost and slow speed [14]. 

In this study, an engineering plastic, namely, polyphenylene sulﬁde (PPS) was used as the polymer matrix, and it has good thermal and chemical resistivity and ultra-high mechanical prop- erties [15]. Composite materials using engineering plastics are in continuous demand in various industries because of their superior mechanical properties. Among the engineering plastics, PPS is called a super engineering plastic, as its properties are signiﬁcantly superior to those of other plastics. PPS dissolves only poorly in any solvent. Hence, most composite materials fabricated using PPS are processed via the melt mixing method. However, PPS is very difﬁcult to handle because it has high viscosity and low liquidity in the melt phase, which limit processability [16]. In order to over- come these problems, a BN/PPS composite was prepared using a method of particle coating onto a polymer pellet. The core-shell structured BN/PPS pellet was made using an adhesive epoxy layer and this BN/PPS pellet was converted into a ﬁlm by hot pressing. The thermal and mechanical properties were compared with those of other composites that were prepared via the melt mixing and powder mixing method. 

2. Experimental


2.1. Preparation of BN-coated PPS pellet


First, the PPS pellet was ground using a blender, and this ground PPS pellet (g-PPS) was sifted using 50 and 25 mesh sieves, yielding PPS pellets with sizes of tens of micrometers. Second, epoxy was introduced onto the PPS surface to act as an adhesive layer. The epoxy was synthesized as follows. The equivalent weight ratio of 

bisphenol-A to DDM (4,4’-diamino diphenylmethane) was 1:0.4. DDM was placed in a four-necked round ﬂask equipped with a reﬂux condenser and was preheated to 120 (cid:3)C. Thirty grams of bisphenol-A resin were added and heated in an oil bath at 120 (cid:3)C for 15 min under a N2 atmosphere. The bubbles in the mixture were removed by placing the mixture in a vacuum oven for 30 min at room temperature. g-PPS was immersed in the synthesized epoxy, mixed for a few minutes, and vacuum ﬁltered to remove residual epoxy, coating a thin layer of epoxy on the PPS pellet. Lastly, the excess hexagonal BN particles were mixed with epoxy-coated PPS pellet for the BN coating, and the remaining BN particles were separated via sieving. The BN-coated PPS pellets (BN-PPS) were thus synthesized. In the epoxy coating step, the adhesive epoxy was diluted using acetone in order to control the thickness of the epoxy and BN layer. The weight fractions of epoxy and acetone were 1:0.3, 1:0.5, and 1:0.7, and these were denoted as c-BN/PPS(0.3), c-BN/ PPS(0.5), and c-BN/PPS(0.7), respectively. The BN-PPS with the non- diluted epoxy layer was denoted as c-BN/PPS(0). 

2.2. Fabrication of the BN/PPS composites


0.6 mm thickness by using a mini molder. The samples were dried


In this study, the BN/PPS composites were fabricated via three kinds of composite fabrication methods, melt mixing using an extruder, powder mixing, and BN-coated PPS, which was proposed in this study. First, different amounts of BN were blended with PPS via the melt mixing method by using a twin-screw extruder (Bau Tech, model BA-11) at 300 (cid:3)C. After cooling, the mixed compound samples of various concentrations were cut into small pieces and prepared into disk-like specimens with 12.7 mm diameter and 0.6 mm thickness by using a mini molder. The samples were dried in a vacuum oven at 80 (cid:3)C for 12 h. The composite fabricated via melt mixing is referred to as m-BN/PPS, hereafter. Second, a com- posite was prepared via powder mixing and hot pressing. The g-PPS pellets and a certain amount of BN were homogeneously mixed using a magnetic stirrer for a few minutes. This powder mixture was poured into Teﬂon molds and hot-pressed at 280 (cid:3)C and 11 tons for 2 h. Finally, the composite was polished to the desired thickness and cut to size. This composite was called p-BN/PPS. The prepared BN-PPS pellet was also fabricated into a composite ﬁlm in the same way. This composite, which was fabricated via the method pro- posed in this study, was called c-BN/PPS. The experimental pro- cedure is summarized in Scheme 1, and the composition of the samples is displayed in Table 1. 

2.3. Characterization


Thermogravimetric analyses (TGA; TGA-2050, TA instrument) of the samples were performed to examine the thermal degradation. Four milligrams of the sample was heated to 800 (cid:3)C at a heating (cid:1)1 under a nitrogen atmosphere. To study the rate of 10 (cid:3)C,min mechanical properties of the composite materials, mechanical an- alyses (DMA; Triton Instrument, Triton DMTA) were carried out. The storage modulus of the solid ﬁlms was measured at a frequency of 1 Hz. The temperature range was 25e150 (cid:3)C with a heating rate of 3 (cid:3)C/min. Tensile tests were performed using a universal testing machine (UTM, R&B Corp, model UTM-301) at a crosshead speed of 5 mm/min. Diffraction patterns were collected using an X-ray diffractometer (XRD, New D8-Advance, Bruker-AXS) at a scan rate (cid:1)1 with a 2q range of 5e70(cid:3) with CuKa1 radiation of 1(cid:3),s (0.154056 nm). Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE- SEM, Carl Zeiss, Sigma) was used to inspect the particle morphol- ogies before and after iron oxide coating and to investigate the ﬁlm cross-sections. The samples were sputtered with a thin layer of platinum before FE-SEM observations to avoid charge accumula- tion. Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) was performed using an 

Table 1 Sample name, theoretical density, measured density, and calculated void fraction according to various composite fabrication method. 

FE-SEM equipped with an EDS detector. Thermal diffusivity (d, (cid:1)1) was measured at room temperature on disk samples mm2,s using the laser ﬂash method (LFA, Netzsch Instruments Co. Nano- (cid:1)1), at room temperature Flash LFA 467). The speciﬁc heat, C (J,g was measured on disk samples by differential scanning calorimetry (cid:1)3) (DSC, Perkin-Elmer Inc. DSC-7) and the bulk density rcomp (g,cm of the specimens was measured using the water displacement (cid:1)1) of the samples method. The thermal conductivity F (W,m was calculated by multiplying their density, speciﬁc heat capacity, and thermal diffusivity. 

3. Results and discussion


3.1. Fabrication of composite using BN-PPS


SEM was used to characterize the surface morphology of the PPS pellet and BN-PPS (Fig. 1). The g-PPS has an irregular size and a rough surface because of grinding. The mean size of g-PPS is around 300 mm, and we can clearly see the platelet shape of BN particles covering the g-PPS surface. Moreover, it can be veriﬁed by EDS atomic mapping that the BN particles almost completely covered the g-PPS. From these observations, we concluded that BN particles were introduced onto the g-PPS surface using epoxy as the adhesive layer and the BN-PPS pellets were successfully fabricated. 

Using this BN-PPS pellet, we fabricated a composite ﬁlm via hot pressing and its cross-sectional morphology was compared to that of the m-BN/PPS and p-BN/PPS composites. As shown in Fig. 2(a), the BN platelets were almost homogeneously dispersed and hori- zontally oriented according to the injection ﬂow direction. This 

particle orientation resulted from the shear stress that was gener- ated during composite molding using the mini molder. Moreover, there is a signiﬁcant air gap between the basal plan of the particle and the polymer matrix. It is well known that the basal plane of BN is molecularly smooth and has no surface functional groups avail- able for chemical bonding or interaction, while the edge planes of the platelets have functional groups such as hydroxyl and amino groups [17]. Therefore, the air gap should be caused by poor interfacial afﬁnity between the basal plane of the particle and the PPS matrix. In case of the p-BN/PPS composite, the BN particles were non-homogenously dispersed and selectively localized at the interfaces among the PPS pellets in the composite materials. On the other hand, the c-BN/PPS composite showed that the BN particles formed a layer around the PPS pellet, implying that the BN/PPS core-shell structure did not collapse after hot pressing. Moreover, the BN particles were connected well to each other at the surface of the polymer pellet. 

In Fig. 3, thermal conductivity was compared, at the same ﬁller loading, in order to conﬁrm the relation between the composite morphology and the thermal conductivity according to the com- posite fabrication method. The BN particle weight fraction in the BN-PPS pellet was veriﬁed as 18% via TGA analysis. The detailed TGA results are shown in Fig. 7. The through-plane thermal con- ductivity (Fig. 3(a)) of m-BN/PPS has the lowest value, which shows only a small enhancement compared to PPS, whereas c-BN/PPS shows a considerable change. The small increase for m-BN/PPS can be explained using the cross-sectional image. Because of the hori- zontal orientation of BN platelets, there is a greater value in the in- plane thermal conductivity than in the through-plane conductivity 

Fig. 1. Particle morphological images and EDS atomic mapping of c-BN. (a) g-PPS pellet, (b) BN/PPS pellet, (c) C atomic mapping of c-BN/PPS, and (d) N atomic mapping of BN/PPS. Denoted white arrow is electron shade. 

[18]. Moreover, the poor interfacial afﬁnity is also one of the factors for the low thermal conductivity. The air gap around the basal plan of BN causes thermal resistance, resulting in the interruption of heat transfer along the vertical direction. In order to analyze accurately the air voids in the composite ﬁlms, the density of the composite and void fraction, which was calculated from the measured and theoretical density, are shown in Table 1. As ex- pected, the m-BN/PPS exhibits a lower density and a high void fraction despite the introduction of the same amount of ﬁllers. The p-BN/PPS composite shows a slightly higher void fraction than the c-BN/PPS, which suggests that some unﬁlled air voids may exist between the aggregated particles. We also measured the in-plane thermal conductivity of these composites and the results are shown in Fig. 3(a). From the SEM image, it is expected that the horizontally oriented BN in the m-BN/PPS composite will show the outstanding performance compared to its through-plane. However, c-BN/PPS still shows better performance than m-BN/PPS. This is attributed to the state of particle dispersion according to the fabrication method. As mentioned in the introduction, the melt mixing method is widely used for commercial composite fabrica- tion because it is simple, and because it facilitates mass production and results in a homogeneous particle dispersion. Generally, 

uniform particle dispersion is one of the most important factors for realizing a high thermal conductivity [19]. However, in this case, the uniform particle dispersion acts as a disadvantage because of the low ﬁller concentration. In order to obtain a high thermal conductivity, a heat ﬂow channel along the heat ﬂow direction should be generated. However, 18 wt% of the ﬁller is insufﬁcient to form particle connections and heat ﬂow channels. Generally, more than 40 wt% ﬁller is required to generate the heat ﬂow path. On the other hand, the c-BN/PPS composite, which is proposed in this study, forms continuous BN networks at the interfaces of the PPS pellets in the composite materials, which could function as an effective way to dissipate heat [20,21]. Moreover, the thermal conductivity difference can also be explained using the XRD results. Among the peaks for the BN particle, the 002 and 004 peaks are attributed to the horizontally oriented BN and the weak 100 peak indicates vertically oriented BN [22]. The XRD pattern of the m-BN/ PPS composite shows a weak and broad polymer peak at around 18(cid:3), which is similar to that of the BN particle without the 100 peak because of horizontal orientation during injection. On the other hand, the 100 peak appeared while the intensity of 002 and 004 peak was drastically decreased in the XRD pattern of c-BN/PPS. It is well known that two-dimensional BN is anisotropic; the in-plane 

Fig. 3. (a) Through-plane and in-plane thermal conductivities of each composite according to composite fabrication method, and (b) XRD pattern of m-BN/PPS, p-BN/PPS and c-BN/ PPS composite ﬁlms. 

thermal conductivity is almost 20 times higher than that of the through-plane conductivity. Therefore, the BN particles parallel to the heat ﬂow direction should greatly inﬂuence the thermal con- ductivity [18]. Particle dispersion and the conducting path of each composite are represented using the schematic diagram shown in Scheme 2. 

In order to conﬁrm the mechanical property difference between composite fabrication method, storage modulus and tensile strength was measured via DMA and UTM, there results were summarized in Fig. 4. As shown in Fig. 4(a), all the composites show a higher modulus than the pure PPS matrix because the hard ceramic ﬁllers restrict the motion of the polymer chain. In partic- ular, c-BN/PPS show a high modulus because the formed particle shell restrict the stress transfer and increase in stiffness of the composite. In case of tensile strength in Fig. 4(b), m-BN/PPS show higher performance than other composites. Due to the aggregated BN particles in p-BN/PPS act as mechanical defect, p-BN/PPS is observed lowest tensile strength. Moreover, because the weak interaction between BN particle and PPS matrix also cause me- chanical property degradation, each BN/PPS core easily exfoliated by external force resulting in lower tensile strength was observed. However, much amount of air gaps between BN particle and PPS 

matrix due to weak interaction in m-BN composite also act as defect, m-BN/PPS composite was also shown low tensile strength than pure PPS matrix. This tensile strength degradation is inevi- table phenomenon for BN/polymer composite materials. On the other hand, particle coating method is shown similar value with conventional method. Therefore, it can be concluded that the ﬁller coating method on the polymer pellet not only exhibited better thermal conductivity but also reasonable mechanical properties. 

3.2. Thickness of BN particle coating according to concentration of


3.2. Thickness of BN particle coating according to concentration of adhesion layer in BN-PPS 

In the fabrication step of BN-PPS, we controlled the thickness of BN coating via different dilutions of the epoxy layer using acetone solution. In order to study the morphology of a core structure in detail, SEM was utilized to observe the trimmed surface of the BN/ PPS composite materials with different epoxy concentrations, and the results are displayed in Fig. 5. It was observed that fewer BN particles were attached into the PPS pellet with epoxy dilution. Moreover, as shown in Fig. 6, the thickness of the BN layer at the composite ﬁlm structure also decreased along with the amount of acetone used as a diluent without break of core-shell structure 

Fig. 7. TGA thermograms of pristine BN, pristine PPS, and various BN-PPS pellet ac- cording to epoxy concentration. 

during hot-press. The detailed contents of BN particle according to epoxy dilution was conﬁrmed by TGA (Fig. 7). The PPS matrix and epoxy decomposed entirely under the experimental condition. BN has very good thermal stability and there was negligible thermal decomposition. Moreover, the weight fraction of BN particle in c- BN/PPS(0), c-BN/PPS(0.3), c-BN/PPS(0.5) and c-BN/PPS(0.7) was 18, 13, 9, and 7%, respectively. 

The thermal conductivity of the BN/PPS composite with various coating thicknesses is presented in Fig. 8. As expected, the increase in the particle thickness leads to an enhancement in thermal con- ductivity because of the generation of a wide and effective heat ﬂow path, which agrees well with the SEM observations [23]. In order to compare the conventional melt mixing method and the proposed method according to the particle concentration, the thermal conductivity enhancement ratio between the two kinds of fabrication methods is summarized in Fig. 8. c-BN/PPS(0.3) had the highest enhancement ratio and it decreased with an increase in the particle content. At all ﬁller concentration, our method has an advantage compared to the melt mixing method. However, in the case of extremely low ﬁller concentrations, lower enhancement than c-BN/PPS(0.3) may originate from the incomplete BN coating due to the insufﬁcient adhesion layer and very low thermal con- ductivity. Hence, much mount of ﬁller was required to more ther- mal conductivity enhancement and c-BN/PPS(0.3) has the most effective epoxy concentration with a remarkable performance compared to the melt mixing method. 

3.3. Hybrid composite fabrication method using c-BN/PPS and m-


3.3. Hybrid composite fabrication method using c-BN/PPS and m- BN/PPS 

Form the above experimental results, we can conﬁrm that the BN coating is an outstanding composite fabrication method with a low ﬁller concentration and high thermal conductivity. However, the above thermal conductivity values were too low compared to those of high-ﬁller-concentration systems. In order to obtain higher thermal conductivity, therefore, we combined the two kinds of composite fabrication methods. A BN/PPS mixture was fabricated 

Fig. 8. Thermal conductivity and enhancement ration between m-BN/PPS and c-BN/ PPS as a function of ﬁller contents. 

Fig. 9. Measured thermal conductivity of m-BN/PPS, h-BN/PPS and theoretically calculated thermal conductivity of m-BN/PPS using agari model. 

via the melt mixing method ﬁrst, and this mixture was ground and coated with BN particle via the same method as that of the fabri- cation of c-BN/PPS with 18 wt% of BN particles. And, the specimens fabricated via this hybrid method were denoted as h-BN/PPS. As shown in Fig. 9, the thermal conductivity of all h-BN/PPS com- posites is outstanding compared to thermal conductivity expecta- tion value of m-BN which calculated via agari model. Moreover, a core-shell structured c-BN/PPS inevitably has heat ﬂow paths only at the boundary of each pellet. Therefore, the inner space of the pellet remained unﬁlled, which has a low thermal conductivity. In case of h-BN/PPS composite using the m-BN/PPS to core, the phonon in the PPS core should move into the outer particle layer 

along the BN ﬁller, and this phonon effectively ﬂows through the formed BN shell structure between each pellet. Thus, a 3-dimen- sional heat ﬂow channel was generated using the hybrid structured composite and it exhibits superior thermal conductivity at a low ﬁller concentration. 

4. Conclusion


In this study, a super engineering plastic, PPS-based thermal conductive composite was fabricated via a novel particle coating method. Thermal conductive BN ﬁllers were introduced onto the PPS pellet surface using an epoxy adhesion layer. This BN-coated PPS pellet was converted into a composite ﬁlm using a hot press. The thermal conductivity of this c-BN/PPS composite was compared to that of other composites that were prepared via melt mixing and power mixing at the same ﬁller concentration. The morphological differences attributed to the composite fabrication method were conﬁrmed via SEM. In case of the m-BN/PPS com- posite, homogeneously dispersed BN particles did not connect with each other and a continuous heat ﬂow channel was not formed. Moreover, the presence of the aggregated BN ﬁller between the PPS pellets in the p-BN/PPS composite also led to a lower thermal conductivity than the c-BN/PPS composite. As a result, BN coating on the PPS pellet has a signiﬁcantly higher thermal conductivity than those prepared by other fabrication methods. 

Moreover, the thickness of the BN particle was also controlled using acetone dilution of the epoxy adhesive layer. Fewer BN particles were attached as the concentration of epoxy decreased, and a thicker BN layer increased the thermal conductivity because of the higher ﬁller concentration. A 1:0.3 epoxy/acetone weight fraction shows the highest enhancement ratio compared to the melt mixed composite. Lastly, we fabricated a composite via the hybrid method; the m- BN/PPS composite was used as the core after grinding, onto which BN particles were coated. This hybrid core-shell structure effec- tively generated a heat ﬂow path resulting in outstanding thermal conductivity at a low ﬁller concentration 

This work was supported by the Technology Innovation Program (10052903, Development of Integrated Circuit Implementation PPS Composite and 3D Modular Technology for Automotive Electronics) funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy (MI, Korea) and the Korea Agency for Infrastructure Technology Advancement un- der the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport of the Korean government. (Project Number: 15SCIP-B108153-01). 

