3D boron nitride foam filled epoxy composites with significantly enhanced thermal conductivity by a facial and scalable approach 

Xinwei Xua,b,c, Renchao Hub,c, Meiyu Chenb,c, Jiufeng Donga,b,c, Bin Xiaob,c, Qing Wangd, Hong Wangb,c,⁎ a School of Microelectronics & State Key Laboratory for Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an 710049, China b Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518055, Guangdong, China c Shenzhen Engineering Research Center for Novel Electronic Information Materials and Devices, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518055, Guangdong, China d Materials Science and Engineering, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802, USA 

cated by the sacrifice of NH4HCO3 template. 

• The 3D boron nitride foam serves as a • Significantly enhanced thermal con- • Finite element simulation revealed the 

Polymer composites with excellent thermal conductivity, low dielectric constant and low dielectric loss are urgently required for microelectronics and wireless communication systems. However, traditional thermal conductive polymer composites realized by simply adding inorganic fillers, cannot have high thermal con- ductivity and good electrical insulation concurrently, which greatly hinders the practical application. In this work, a facile and scalable assembly technique to construct a three-dimensional boron nitride foam (3D-BN) for the formation of 3D-BN/epoxy composites has been proposed to address this long-standing challenge. Herein we built a self-support and pressure reinforced 3D-BN foam composed of only bulk-BN microplates to serve as the thermal pathway. The obtained composite with greatly enhanced thermal conductivity enhancement (TCE) exhibits the highest through-plane thermal conductivity of 6.11 W m−1 K−1 ever reported for bulk-BN polymer composites. Further analysis by finite element simulation revealed that the high thermal conductivity is at- tributed to the polymer-free, pressure reinforced 3D-BN foam which serves as a more effective pathway for the phonons transmission. This work offers an easy approach and provides a new paradigm for the fabrication and design of thermal management polymers. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.125447 Received 14 November 2019; Received in revised form 26 April 2020; Accepted 10 May 2020 Available online 14 May 2020 1385-8947/ © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 

1. Introduction


The present century has witnessed significant progress in the in- tegration and miniaturization of microelectronic devices [1,2]. The ever-increasing power density of these devices has brought un- precedented challenges that the generation of much more heat would greatly affect their security, performance and lifetime, thus further re- stricting the development of microelectronics and wireless commu- nication [3–6]. Therefore, effective heat dissipation management has become an urgent problem to be solved. Particularly, the high density integration system, high frequency printed circuit boards (PCB) used for the rapidly developed 5G technology, internet of things (IoTs) and ar- tificial intelligence (AI) are calling for effective thermal management technique. In this context, high resistance, low dielectric constant and low dielectric loss are simultaneously required in order to reduce the resistance–capacitance time delay, line to line crosstalk noise and power dissipation [7–12]. Majorities of polymers and their composites can achieve most of the above properties but still lack adequate thermal conductivity. Thermal conductive polymer composites are usually realized by simply adding inorganic fillers, resulting in undesirable thermal conductivity, high cost, reduced electrical insulation, increased dielectric constant and dielectric loss, which greatly hinders the prac- tical application [13–18]. 

The key to solve this problem is to improve the thermal conductivity enhancement (TCE). The building of three-dimension (3D) inter- connected network of fillers provides a new and promising route to greatly enhance TCE. Tremendous efforts have been devoted to the design and fabrication of 3D interconnected fillers, such as cellulose supported 3D structure construction [19–22], polymers or dispersant assisted ice-template methods [23–25], electro conducting graphene or graphene assisted 3D skeleton [13–16,26,27], electrospinning method [10,11,28], melt extrusion or shearing [29,30] and spraying coating [31]. Although these studies have made significant progress in terms of improving the TCE, the improvement is still far from the requirements of practical applications. Most of these studies require a second material for the construction of 3D interconnected network of fillers, like poly- mers or graphene. In fact, no matter what kind of polymer (including cellulose, PVA and gelatin or dispersion agents) is used for the con- struction of 3D interconnected fillers skeletons, the enhancement in the thermal conductivity is considerably undermined. The added thermally insulating polymer will be filled among fillers, which will greatly at- tenuate the effect of the thermally conductive skeleton. Thermal con- ductive supporting graphene can greatly enhance TCE but they are electrically conductive and would affect the insulating and dielectric properties of the composites remarkably. The formation of non-thermal insulating and non-electrical conductive material existing 3D fillers is still a big challenge. Furthermore, the explicit mechanism behind the great enhancement of thermal transfer efficiency in 3D fillers/polymer composites has rarely been reported. 

Besides the improvement of the fillers’ TCE, to select appropriate fillers is also of great importance. BN possesses the highest thermal 

conductivity (200 W m−1 K−1) [24] among the dielectric materials with a smaller dielectric constant (3–5) [32,33] lower than 5, which makes it one of the most promising filler for novel composites with high thermal conductivity while maintaining high electrical resistance, low dielectric constant and low dielectric loss. BN nanosheets (BNNSs) have been widely studied as a filler for thermal conductive composites and proved to be able to enhance thermal conductivity substantially [10,11,20–23,25,30]. However, the difficulty of efficient exfoliation makes it expensive and far from applications [34–36]. The bulk BN, in contrast, can be easily obtained at a cheaper cost, which definitely makes it more attractive in the preparation of thermal conductive composites if massive industrial production is desired. 

Herein, we report a new method to fabricate 3D-BN foam with bulk BN plates by a second sacrificial material NH4HCO3. This method can build a polymer-free and pressure reinforced 3D-BN foams after the decomposing of NH4HCO3. There is no polymer or dispersing agents between BN in the preformed 3D-BN foam, avoiding those with low intrinsic thermal conductivity existing to prevent direct filler-filler contact in the thermal pathways. Based on this method, the composites with excellent thermal conductivity, high electrical insulation, low di- electric constant and low dielectric loss have been successfully pre- pared. An in-depth theoretical analysis has been conducted using finite element simulation to reveal the thermal transfer mechanism for the obtained 3D fillers/polymer composites. This work opens up an avenue for the development of highly thermal conductive composites by this innovative 3D-structure fabrication method. 

2. Experimental section


2.1. Materials


Bulk hexagonal BN microplates with a mean size of 3 μm were obtained from Qingzhoumaitekechuang Materials Co., Ltd, China. NH4HCO3 with lateral size of 300 μm was purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Liquid epoxy resin (Der-331) was obtained from Dow Chemical Co.. Curing agent hexahydrophthalic anhydride (HHPA) was purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd and catalytic agent imidazole was obtained from Beijing Innochem Science & Technology Co., Ltd. 

2.2. Preparation of 3D-BN foam and 3D-BN/epoxy composites


As schematically depicted in Fig. 1, BN powders and NH4HCO3 were mixed with different volume fractions of BN from 10% to 80% firstly, and then pressed into a disk shape under a pressure of 300 MPa for 5 min. The samples were subsequently heat treated in an air-circulating oven at 80 °C for 12 h to form a 3D interconnected BN foam. NH4HCO3 acted as a structural constituent material that can decompose into gas at 80 °C. Subsequently, for the fabrication of 3D-BN/epoxy composites, liquid epoxy resin, curing agent HHPA and catalytic agent imidazole were mixed by ball milling and degassed for 30 min, followed by 

carefully immersing the 3D-BN foams completely into the mixture and degassed for 1 h to totally dislodge the air. At last, the composites were cured in an oven at 70 °C for 2 h, followed by 110 °C for 2 h and 150 °C for 10 h. BN loading fractions were controlled by the volume fraction of NH4HCO3. Randomly distributed BN/epoxy composites were prepared for comparison by dispersing the same ratio of BN into epoxy mixture using ball milling. 

vertically oriented h-BN are responsible for the (0 0 2) and (1 0 0) peaks, respectively. The intensity ratio I002/I100 can reflect the or- ientation of BN along the in-plane direction (perpendicular to the pressure direction). According to Fig. 3, for h-BN, the ratio is 7.6 and keeps increasing with the increase of the volume fraction of BN for 3D- BN/epoxy composites, which indicates the increasing orientation de- gree of BN along the in-plane direction. 

2.3. Characterization


Morphologies of 3D-BN foams and 3D-BN/epoxy composites were observed by field-emission SEM (TESCAN) operated at 10 kV. The or- ientation degree of BN in the sample were detected by X-ray diffraction (XRD) with CuKα radiation (D8 Advance, Bruker). The volume fraction of BN in the composites was ascertained by thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA1, METTER-TOLEDO) at a heating rate of 5 °C min−1. The thermal conductivities (κ) of the composites were calculated by the relationship κ = αρCp, where α corresponds to the thermal diffusivity measured by LFA 467 analyzer (NETZSCH, Germany) at ambient temperature, ρ is the density of the composites determined by Archimedes methods, and Cp is the heat capacity of the composites tested using a differential scanning calorimeter (Discovery DSC, TA Corporation, USA). The di- electric constant and dielectric loss was measured using a broadband 

Company, Germany) with an Alpha-A high performance frequency analyzer at room temperature from 10−2 to 106 Hz. The surface tem- peratures of the LED chips were recorded by a thermal infrared imager (FOTRIC 226s, China). 

3. Results and discussion


3.1. Morphology and structure of the 3D-BN foam and 3D-BN/epoxy


3.1. Morphology and structure of the 3D-BN foam and 3D-BN/epoxy composites 

The structure of the 3D-BN foam plays a crucial role in the thermal transport behavior of the composites. Fig. 2(a)–(c) show the micro- structure of the cross section of the 3D-BN foams. It can be seen that these foams exhibit honeycomb-like shape and the skeleton is made of well-connected BN microplates. It is worth mentioning that there is no polymer or dispersing agents between BN, avoiding those with low intrinsic thermal conductivity existing in the 3D-BN foam [19–25]. The well-connected BN microplates are expected to have reduced thermal contact resistance and thus can serve as a thermal transfer pathway through the composites. The concentrations of the 3D-BN were con- trolled by the mixing ratio of BN and NH4HCO3 powder. BN volume ratios to NH4HCO3 were controlled from 10% to 80%. 

When immersed into liquid epoxy mixture and experienced a re- duced pressure condition, the skeleton of the 3D-BN can be fully filled by epoxy resin, as shown in the SEM images of the samples (Fig. 2(d)–(f)). After the curing procedure, the composites with pre- formed 3D-BN structure are well preserved. With the increasing of BN volume fraction, the vacancies within the BN skeleton become smaller. The BN forms a strong and well compacted 3D interconnected structure for thermal dissipation pathway, which is beneficial for enhancing the thermal conductivity of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites. The volume ra- tios of BN in the composites were identified by TGA (Fig. S1 and Table S2 in electronic Supplementary information (Supplementary data)). 

Platelet-like BN fillers have anisotropic thermal conductivity. The thermal conductivity along the in-plane direction is much higher than along the through-plane direction. Rigid NH4HCO3 particles can hinder BN platelets to orientate perpendicularly to the pressure direction, which could thus benefit for the increase of through-plane thermal conductivity. However, with the volume fraction of BN increasing, the amount of NH4HCO3 decreases accordingly. The horizontally oriented BN will make a decrease in the through-plane thermal conductivity of the composites. As reported previously [37], the horizontally and 

3.2. Thermal conductivity of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites and their


3.2. Thermal conductivity of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites and their mechanism 

Fig. 4(a) displays the through-plane thermal conductivity of the 3D- BN/epoxy composites as a function of BN volume fraction. The thermal conductivity of the epoxy exhibits a dramatic increase after introducing the 3D-BN foam. The initial thermal conductivity of the epoxy resin is only 0.18 W m−1 K−1 at room temperature, which is consistent with previous results [20,23]. The thermal conductivity of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites increases almost linearly with the BN loading when the volume ratio of 3D-BN is below 60%. However, when the BN ratio further increases, the thermal conductivity of the composites starts to decrease. These results suggest that most of the introduced 3D-BN contributes to the formation of thermally conductive pathway in the composites when the volume ratio of 3D-BN is below 59.43%. Yet further increasing BN will introduce lots of independent closed va- cancies, thus leading to incomplete filling of the epoxy resin in the composites, which is further proven by the SEM images in Fig. S2 and Table S3. This will leave plenty of unfilled air bubbles in the compo- sites, preventing further improvement of the thermal conductivity of the composites. A maximum thermal conductivity of 6.11 W m−1 K−1 has been achieved with a 3D-BN loading ratio of 59.43% at room temperature, which is about 34 times higher than that of the pure epoxy. Randomly distributed BN/epoxy composites were also prepared for comparison. Fig. 4(b) displays the thermal conductivity enhance- ment compared with epoxy resin. The thermal conductivity enhance- ment of the 3D-BN/epoxy is much higher than the randomly distributed BN/epoxy, which implies that the 3D interconnected structure is more effective for thermal transfer. 

In order to illustrate the underlying mechanism, a simple 2D tran- sient-state finite element simulation has been conducted. The initial temperature is set to 293.15 K. With a constant temperature field of 393.15 K being added to the left side of the model, the temperature and the heat flux in the model are shown in Fig. 4(c). The thermal con- ductivity of is 0.18 W m−1 K−1 and 200 W m−1 K−1, respectively. Red heat flow arrows only indicate the direction of the heat flow and do not quanti- tatively represent the magnitude of the heat flow between these two models. For the interconnected BN model, heat will selectively pass through the boron nitride framework compared with the heat pass through epoxy region. BN has a high thermal conductivity thus leading to quickly thermal transfer. Heat flows quickly from the left side to the right end, the temperature of the right end quickly arises and the ma- jority of the heat flow arrows pass through the interconnected BN. While for the unconnected BN model, heat flow is homogeneous without distinguished difference between BN and epoxy. Epoxy has a much lower thermal conductivity compared with BN. Consequently, the heat transfer is greatly blocked by the epoxy matrix, resulting in a thermal difference ribbon area between the matrix and BN, re- presenting as a cold blue right end. These results indicate that why the 3D-BN/epoxy composite is more effective for thermal transfer com- pared with the randomly distributed BN/epoxy composite. 

To quantitatively study the underlying mechanism, two physical models have been adopted, the effective medium theory (EMT) and Foygel’s theory. EMT is a simple calculation for predicting the effective thermal conductivity of composites, which is suitable for composites made up of arbitrary ellipsoidal inclusion embedded in a matrix with an imperfect matrix-inclusion interface characterized by a Kapitza type 

Fig. 2. SEM images and photo of the composites. Cross-section SEM images of 3D-BN foams formed with the vo- lume ratio of BN (NH4HCO3 and BN) being (a) 20%, (b) 40% and (c) 60%. SEM images of the polished surfaces of the corresponding 3D-BN/epoxy com- posites with BN volume ratio being (d) 18.61%, (e) 35.82% and (f) 52.01% identified by DSC. (g) EDS mapping results of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites with a BN volume ratio of 18.61%. (h) Photograph of the 3D-BN/epoxy com- posites. 

Fig. 3. (a) XRD pattern of the 3D-BN/epoxy with a BN volume fraction of 9.95%. (b) The orientation degree of 3D-BN/epoxy composites indicated by the intensity ratio I002/I100. 

interfacial thermal resistance [38]. EMT model has been widely used in previous works [23,24]. For randomly distributed BN/epoxy composite, BN is encapsulated by epoxy and the thermal interface resistance be- tween the BN and the epoxy matrix dominates in the composite, where the EMT model works well. The EMT model follows the equations below: 

where K is the thermal conductivity of the composite, Km and KBN are the thermal conductivity of epoxy and BN, 0.18 W m−1 K−1 and 

200 W m−1 K−1, respectively. Vf is the volume fraction of BN, d is the thickness of BN plates (0.2 μm). Rc is the interface thermal resistance between BN and epoxy. The perfect fitted EMT model (Fig. S3(a)) of 

5.4 × 10−7 m2 K W−1, which is comparable to the previous report [23]. For the 3D-BN/epoxy composites, however, the interfacial thermal resistance is mainly originated from BN–BN interface not BN- epoxy interface. Therefore, a nonlinear model proposed by Foygel et al [39] should be considered. Foygel model fits for extracting some im- portant information concerning the nature of the percolating networks, which works well in many similar case [23,24]. Foygel nonlinear model is then adopted to evaluate the dominant thermal interface resistance between the BN plates, which is given by: 

Fig. 4. Thermal properties of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites and their comparison composites. (a) Thermal conductivity of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites as a function of BN volume fraction. (b) Comparison of thermal conductivity enhancement of the 3D-BN/epoxy and randomly distributed BN/epoxy composites. (c) Thermal transfer behavior of interconnected and discrete BN/epoxy composites simulated by finite element simulation. The sides of the rectangle matrix are 10 μm and 5 μm. The sides of the hexagonal BN are 1.5 μm. (d) Comparison of the thermal conductivities of bulk BN/polymer as a function of BN volume fraction. 

Table 1 Comparison of this work and other typical thermal conductive dielectric polymer composites. 

where K0 is a pre-exponential factor related to BN contribution, Vc is the critical volume fraction of BN, τ is a conductivity exponent which de- pends on the aspect ratio of the BN plates, L is the size of the BN plates (3 μm) and R is the contact resistance between the BN plates. The perfect fitted Foygel model (Fig. S3(b)) with 3D-BN/epoxy data has an R of 4.18 × 106 K W−1. Assume 1% of the BN surface takes part in the formation of the network, the interface thermal resistance RBN between BN is 5.8 × 10−7 m2 K W−1. It is noted that interface thermal re- sistance between BN plates and the interface thermal resistance be- tween epoxy and BN are comparable, which means that in 3D-BN/ epoxy composite both of the interface thermal resistances either be- tween BN-epoxy or between BN-BN have great influence on the heat transfer behavior. 

Fig. 4(d) summarizes the thermal conductivity of the microplates BN/polymer composites of this work and those of previously reported work [10,23,24,40–52]. It can be seen that the 3D-BN/epoxy compo- sites exhibit superior thermal conductivity among all the other BN based composites. Table 1 shows the summary of this work as compared to some of the recent thermal conductive dielectric polymer compo- sites. This study has significant advantages whether in terms of thermal conductivity value or TCE. It is hence obvious that the construction of 3D-BN in polymer composites is a much more effective way to improve the thermal conductivity of the composites. However, in previous work, low intrinsic thermal conductivity polymers like PVA, cellulose or electrical conductive graphene are usually added as the structure sup- porting materials, whereas this work can construct the 3D-BN network without any polymer, leading to the outstanding thermal conductivity. 

3.3. Difference between heat transfer behavior and enhancement


3.3. Difference between heat transfer behavior and enhancement mechanism for randomly distributed BN/epoxy and 3D-BN/epoxy 

To further study the thermal conduction behavior of the BN/ by COMSOL 

Multiphysics 5.4 has been conducted. Three kinds of composites of pure epoxy, randomly distributed BN (20 vol%)/epoxy and 3D-BN (20 vol %)/epoxy were modeled. The geometry and parameters of the models are presented in Supplementary data (Table S4). Transient-state finite element methodology was established. The temperature at the bottom 

Fig. 5. Heat transfer process simulated by finite element simulation. Temperature distribution and heat flow arrows of (a) pure epoxy resin, (b) randomly distributed BN/epoxy composite with BN volume ratio of 20%, (c) 3D-BN/epoxy composite with BN volume ratio of 20%. 

is fixed to 120 °C, while all other outer boundaries are perfectly in- sulated and all the boundaries except for the bottom have an initial value at room temperature (20 °C). All the three models were set as the same conditions and the total time length is 0.02 s with a step length of 0.002 s. Fig. 5(a)–(c) show the temperature distribution and heat flux arrows of pure epoxy, randomly distributed BN/epoxy and 3D-BN/ epoxy over time, and the dynamic variations are shown in the Movie S1. The distribution temperature and the arrows of the heat flux re- present the heat transfer speed and the heat transfer direction in the composites, respectively. For pure epoxy and randomly distributed BN/ epoxy, as a result of temperature distribution, the heat transfers uni- formly and slowly from the bottom to the top, while in 3D-BN/epoxy, the heat transfers fast and comparatively from one side to another. Combined with the heat flux arrows, heat flows equally from each re- gion for pure epoxy and randomly distributed BN/epoxy. But for 3D- BN/epoxy, the heat arrows are mainly concentrated in the 3D-BN re- gion, indicating that most heat is quickly transferred through 3D-BN. Although epoxy has a low thermal conductivity, the heat flow selec- tively passes from the designed 3D-BN pathways. The more efficient the 3D-BN thermal pathway is, the faster the heat transfer will be. The average temperature of the top surface is also recorded and illustrated in Fig. S4. The average top surface temperatures of the pure epoxy and randomly distributed BN/epoxy remain no change in the whole process. While for the 3D-BN/epoxy, it gets close to the temperature of the bottom quickly which means the superior thermal conduction behavior of the 3D-BN/Epoxy composites. 

For the composite with randomly distributed fillers, the effect to enhance its thermal conductivity seems quite limited only by adding fillers with high thermal conductivity even as 100 times higher than that of the matrix [67]. To further understand the mechanism of thermal conductivity enhancement in the composite, two 3D steady- state models were established using finite element simulation to model the thermal conductivity of the randomly distributed BN/epoxy and 3D- BN/epoxy at a fixed volume fraction of 20%, respectively. The models and parameters used are shown in Supplementary data (Fig. S5). The 

heat flux was set along z direction. The bottom and top surfaces were considered to have a constant temperature of 0 °C and 120 °C, respec- tively. All other outer boundaries are perfectly insulated. The thermal conductivity K of the composites was calculated by the following equation [68]: 

where Φ is the heat flux density along z direction, which is computed by COMSOL Multiphysics 5.4, d is the thickness in z direction and ΔT is the temperature difference between the bottom and top surfaces, which is 120 °C. Firstly, as shown in Fig. 6(a), for a fixed thermal conductivity (200 W m−1 K−1) of fillers, the thermal conductivity of composites linearly increases in both models as the thermal conductivity of the matrix increases from 0.2 to 10 W m−1 K−1. As shown in Fig. 6(b) and (c), at a fixed thermal conductivity (0.2 W m−1 K−1) of matrix, the thermal conductivity of randomly distributed BN/epoxy composites increases nonlinearly and reaches a saturated value when the thermal conductivity of the fillers reaches up to 100 W m−1 K−1. While for the 3D-BN/epoxy composites, it increases fast and linearly. These results indicate that for both randomly distributed fillers and 3D inter- connected fillers composites, it is effective to choose a matrix with higher thermal conductivity. While the situation turns out to be very different when improving the thermal conductivity of the composites by increasing the thermal conductivity of the fillers. For randomly distributed fillers composites, it is apparent that filler’s thermal con- ductivity does not have a significant influence on the thermal con- ductivity of the composites when it achieves a certain value. However, for 3D interconnected fillers composites, the filler’s thermal con- ductivity has a positive linear effect on the enhancement of the thermal conductivity of the composites. 

3.4. Thermal management capability of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites


power LED was set as a heat source for a demo. As shown in Fig. 7(b), the LED acts as the heat source, the 3D-BN/epoxy composites with a diameter of 20 mm and a thickness of 1 mm serve as the thermal in- terface materials or circuit board between the top heat source and bottom heat sink. The temperature of these models was observed by a thermal infrared imager as shown in Fig. 7(a). The corresponding maximum temperatures of these models were extracted and plotted as Fig. 7(c). Compared with pure epoxy, the 3D-BN/epoxy composites exhibited a much better thermal management performance. The max- imum temperature of the device can be cooling down from 136.1 °C to 64.4 °C. Moreover, the 3D-BN/epoxy composite dissipates heat more effectively compared with the randomly distributed BN/epoxy. At a BN volume ratio of 18.61%, the highest temperature dropped from 98.2 °C for the randomly distributed BN/epoxy to 74.9 °C for the 3D-BN/epoxy composite. The device temperature has been cooling down 23.3 °C, reduced by 23.7%, which confirm the advantage of our structural de- sign. 

3.5. Dielectric properties of the 3D-BN/epoxy composites


For microelectronic packaging and the radio communication tech- nology, in order to decrease the parasitic capacitances, the time delay of the signal and the power dissipation, low dielectric constant, low di- electric loss and high resistivity are also required for thermal man- agement materials [7–12]. Fig. 8(a) displays the dielectric properties of the 3D-BN/epoxy from 10−2 Hz to 1 MHz. It is found that the in- troduction of 3D-BN into epoxy slightly increases the dielectric constant and greatly decreases the dielectric loss of the composites. These results can be attributed to the higher dielectric constant and much lower di- electric loss compared with that of the epoxy matrix. The dielectric constants of the composites are all lower than 4.1 and the dielectric losses are lower than 0.02. Fig. 8(b) shows the DC electrical resistance of the composites at 500 V for 60 s. Electrical resistant has been en- hanced with the addition of BN, which may be attributed to the high resistance of BN. The abnormal properties observed in the composites with a BN volume fraction of 77.46% may be attributed to the in- complete filling of the composites with epoxy. The conduction loss associated with DC conductivity is not dominate in dielectric loss for 3D-BN/epoxy composites (See Supplementary data). 

4. Conclusions


In summary, a facile and effective approach has been designed to construct 3D-BN/epoxy composites with high thermal conductivity, low dielectric constant and excellent electrical insulation characteristics. Different from most of the previous work, the skeleton of the as-pre- pared 3D-BN foams is polymer free and pressure reinforced thus building a more effective thermal pathway. At a BN volume fraction of the composites exhibit a greatly enhanced 35.82% and 59.43%, through-plane thermal conductivity of 3.97 W m−1 K−1 and 6.11 W m−1 K−1, respectively. 3D finite element modeling suggests that most of the heat can transfer quickly through the 3D inter- connected filler network. Moreover, different from the randomly dis- tributed filler composites, the simulation results reveal a linearly po- sitive enhancement on the thermal conductivity of the composites when the thermal conductivity of the 3D fillers is increased, which is quite 

Consequently, construction of effective thermal pathway is the key point to improve the thermal conductivity of the composites. This work inputs new insight into the design, fabrication and improvement strategy for polymer-based composites with both excellent thermal conductivity and dielectric properties. 

Fig. 6. Different strategies to improve the thermal conductivity of composites for randomly distributed fillers and 3D interconnected fillers composites si- mulated by COMSOL Multiphysics 5.4. Thermal conductivity of the composites as a function of (a) matrix thermal conductivity with a fixed thermal con- ductivity of the fillers (200 W m−1 K−1) and (b) filler’s thermal conductivity with a fixed matrix thermal conductivity (0.2 W m−1 K−1) of randomly dis- tributed fillers and 3D interconnected fillers composites with a filler volume ratio of 20%. (c) Thermal conductivity of the composites as a function of filler’s 

(0.2 W m−1 K−1) for randomly distributed fillers with a filler volume ratio of 20%. 

One is the active device like chips and LEDs. The other is the RF power applications. With the integration and miniaturization of these devices, heat dissipation becomes more serious and urgent. Herein, a 10 Watt 

Fig. 7. (a) Surface temperature of practical demo monitored by thermal infrared imager. (b) photograph of the heat source integrated with composites and heat sink. (c) The highest temperature of the demo as a function of time. 

The work was supported by Shenzhen Science and Technology Program (No. JCYJ20180504165831308 and KQTD20180411143514543) and Shenzhen DRC project [2018]1433. 

