BN-MWCNT/PPS core-shell structured composite for high thermal conductivity with electrical insulating via particle coating 

Polyphenylene sulﬁde (PPS) is a promising material as an important engineering thermoplastic polymer for various industrial applications. Here we report a highly thermally conductive PPS composite con- taining boron nitride (BN) and multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) as a thermally conductive ﬁller. The composite was prepared by the particle coating method into polymer pellets in order to obtain high thermal conductivity with low ﬁller concentration, and thus overcome the drawbacks of melt mixing. A comparison between conventional melt mixing and the proposed method showed that the continuous connection of particles at the surface of each pellet led to great enhancement of thermal conductivity. Moreover, the electrically insulating BN layer effectively interrupted electron conduction, which is the major problem with using MWCNTs as a thermally conductive ﬁller, despite their superior thermal conductivity. Our results show that the particle coating method may be used as a promising composite fabrication method for engineering plastics-based thermally conductive materials. 

1. Introduction


In the past decade, engineering plastics-based composite ma- terials for various applications have risen to prominence as alter- native materials to metals, and have been studied extensively [1e3]. Engineering thermoplastics are a subset of plastic mate- rials that are used in applications generally requiring higher per- formance in the areas of heat resistance, chemical resistance, impact resistance, ﬂame retardancy, or mechanical strength [4]. Engineering thermoplastics are so named because they have one or more properties that exhibit a higher performance than do com- modity materials, and are suitable for applications that require engineering to design parts that perform adequately during their intended use. One of the prospective applications of engineering plastics is electronic packaging. Microelectronic packaging is playing an increasingly important role in the advancement of electronic and electric technologies as electronic devices, commu- nication equipment, and lighting apparatuses continue to become denser and more powerful. Improvements in size and performance result in the generation of a greater amount of heat in a smaller volume [5]. The excessive heat generated during the operation of 

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.polymer.2016.08.062 0032-3861/© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. 

these components could not only harm their own performance, but could also degrade the performance and reliability of the overall system, possibly causing system failure. Therefore, it is crucial that the heat generated from these devices be dissipated as quickly and effectively as possible, to maintain the operating temperatures of the devices at desired levels [6]. 

However, because of their low thermal conductivity, engineer- ing plastics cannot effectively dissipate the heat generated in such devices. For example, the thermal conductivity of polyphenylene sulﬁde (PPS), which is used in this study, is only around 0.24 W/ (m$K) [7]. Thus, efﬁciently increasing the thermal conductivity of a composite has been an important research topic. The most commonly used method for enhancing the thermal conductivity of a polymer-based thermally conductive composite is to introduce a highly thermally conductive component, such as a carbonaceous material (e.g., graphene or multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs)) and a ceramics powder (e.g., BN, AlN, or SiC) into the polymer matrix to form a thermally conductive composite material [8e11]. Of these substances, carbonaceous materials have excellent thermal transport properties because of their uniform lattice and superior electric conductivity in accordance with their overlapped orbitals. The theoretical conductivity of graphene thermal is > 2000 W/mK, and for MWCNTs is > 3000 W/mK, which are 10000 and 15000 times higher values, respectively, than that of commercial polymers [12]. The Han group reported that a 4 wt% of 

an MWCNT-containing PMMA composite exhibits a thermal con- (cid:1)1 [13]. In addition, the Teng group also ductivity of 3.4 W m reported that a 4 wt% of graphene improved the thermal conduc- tivity 80 times over an unﬁlled polymer [14]. However, these re- ports have only academic signiﬁcance, and cannot be applied to electronic devices, because those composites also have extremely high electrical conductivity, which could cause device malfunction due to electron leakage. Therefore, ceramic ﬁller, which has electric insulating materials, has been more widely applied recently than carbonaceous material has been. Unfortunately, ceramic particles have a relatively lower thermal conductivity, because electrons transport heat energy, resulting in electrically conductive materials that also have high thermal conductivity [15]. In order to use carbonaceous material as a thermally conductive ﬁller with elec- trically insulating properties, various approaches have been attempted in various reports; for example, a binary ﬁller system with ceramic materials, morphology control, and an insulating material coated onto a carbonaceous material [16e18]. However, these methods have not satisﬁed the demand for an electrically insulating property with a high concentration of 

Generally, thermoplastics are manufactured into composite materials via the melt mixing method using an extruder. In order to obtain high thermal conductivity, extremely high ﬁller loading, typically larger than 50 vol%, is required using this conventional composite fabrication method. However, this high ﬁller loading reduces the processability of the resulting material, which is one of the major advantages of a polymer matrix, owing to the increase in the volume fraction of the ﬁller signiﬁcantly increasing the vis- cosity of the composite, which is a very important factor in the melt mixing method using an extruder [19]. Moreover, PPS, which has been called a superengineering plastic, due to more outstanding properties than other engineering plastics, is very hard to handle because it has a high viscosity and low liquidity in the melted phase. Unfortunately, PPS cannot be resolved by almost any solvent, as most of the composite materials made using PPS have inevitably been fabricated via the melt mixing method [20]. 

In this study, we obtained high thermal conductivity with excellent electrical insulation via a new composite fabrication method with a low ﬁller concentration. As the thermally conduc- tive ﬁller, a small amount of MWCNT and BN binary ﬁller were contained within the PPS matrix. Furthermore, the BN-MWCNT/ PPS composite was prepared as a polymer pellet using a particle coating method. From the melt mixed MWCNT/PPS pellet and the BN particle coating that was applied using an adhesive epoxy layer, a core-shell structured BN-MWCNT/PPS pellet was created, which was then processed into a ﬁlm shape by hot-pressing. The thermal and electrical properties were compared with those of other composites that were prepared via the melt mixing method. 

2.2. Preparation of BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS composites


PPS composites containing MWCNTs and BN were prepared by melt mixing in a twin extruder (model BA-11, L/D ratio ¼ 40, Bau Technology, Seoul, Republic of Korea). The temperatures of the feeding zone, melting zone, mixing zone, and exit die of the twin extruder were 270, 280, 290, and 300 (cid:3)C, respectively. Melt-mixed composites were immediately quenched in a water bath after extrusion. The composites were cut and dried in an air-circulating oven at 100 (cid:3)C for one day before use. Finally, the specimens for the thermal conductivity and tensile strength tests were prepared by a mini injection molder (DSM Xplore, Micro Injection Molding Machine 5.5 mL). After being molded, the specimens were placed in a vacuum oven at 30 (cid:3)C prior to thermal and mechanical testing. 

2.3. Fabrication of the MWCNT@BN/PPS and BN@MWCNT/PPS


2.3. Fabrication of the MWCNT@BN/PPS and BN@MWCNT/PPS core-shell structures 

In this study, the core-shell structure was fabricated using pre- pared BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS composites with MWCNT and BN particle coating, respectively. First, the prepared BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS pellets were each ground using a blender, and the ground pellets were sifted using sieves with 50 and 25 mesh, respectively. From this step, we obtained pellets that were tens of microns in size. Secondly, epoxy was introduced onto the ground pellet surface as an adhesive layer. The synthesizing method for the epoxy was the following step. The equivalent weight ratio of bisphenol-A to 4,40-diaminodiphenylmethane (DDM), which was 1:0.4, was placed in a four-neck round ﬂask equipped with a reﬂux condenser and was preheated to 120 (cid:3)C. Then, 30 g of the bisphenol-A resin was added and heated in an oil bath at 120 (cid:3)C for 15 min under an N2 atmosphere. The bubbles in the mixture were removed by placing the mixture in a vacuum oven for 30 min at room temperature. Ground BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS pellets were separately immersed in the synthesized epoxy and mixed for a few minutes, and the vacuum ﬁltrated to remove residual epoxy. From this step, a thin epoxy layer covered the PPS pellet. Thirdly, the excess amount of hexagonal BN and MWCNT particles were mixed with epoxy coated pellet for particle coating, and remained parti- cles were separated via sieving, as a result, BN coated MWCNT/PPS 

(MWCNT@BN/PPS) pellet were synthesized. Lastly, the composite was prepared via hot-pressing. Prepared BN@MWCNT/PPS and MWCNT@BN/PPS pellets were pour into Teﬂon mold and hot- pressed at 280 (cid:3)C and 11 tons for 2 h. At last the composite was polished until a desired thickness and cut into proper size. The experimental procedure is summarized in Scheme 1. 

2. Experimental methods


2.4. Characterization


2.1. Materials


The hexagonal boron nitride (BN) was purchased from Momentive. The average particle size of BN was 12 mm. The multi- walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT, Hanhwa Nanotech, Seoul, Ko- rea) were synthesized by thermal chemical vapor deposition (CVD). The CVD-MWCNTs had diameters ranging from 40 to 60 nm and an average purity of 95%. The PPS polymer resin was purchased from Solvay. To obtain the polymer adhesion layer, the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A (DGEBA; Kukdo Chemical; epoxy equivalent weight (E.E.W.) ¼ 186.8 g/eq) was dried in a vacuum oven for 2 h to remove the residual solvent.4,40-Diaminodiphenylmethane (DDM), which was manufactured by TCI Korea, was used as a curing agent without 

Thermogravimetric analyses (TGA; TGA-2050, TA instruments) of the samples was carried out to examine the thermal degradation. Samples of 4 mg were heated to 800 (cid:3)C at a heating rate of 10 (cid:3)C/ min under a nitrogen atmosphere. Field-emission scanning elec- tron microscopy (FE-SEM, Carl Zeiss, Sigma) was used to inspect particle morphologies before and after the particle coating, and to investigate ﬁlm cross sections. The samples were sputtered with a thin layer of platinum before FE-SEM observation, to avoid charge (cid:1)1) of accumulation. The thermal diffusivity d (in units of mm2$s disk-shaped samples was measured at room temperature using laser ﬂash analysis (LFA; NanoFlash LFA 467, Netzsch Instruments Co.). The speciﬁc heat C of disk-shaped samples was measured (in (cid:1)1) at room temperature by differential scanning units of J g 

calorimetry (DSC; DSC-7, Perkin-Elmer Inc.), and the bulk density (cid:1)3) of the specimens was measured using the rcomp (in units of g$cm water displacement method. The thermal conductivity F of the (cid:1)1) was calculated by multiplying samples (in units of W$m their density, speciﬁc heat capacity, and thermal diffusivity. Tensile tests were performed using a universal testing machine (UTM; model UTM-301, R&B Corp.) at a crosshead speed of 5 mm/min. The electrical conductivity of the MWCNT composites was measured by impedance spectroscopy (IM-6ex, Zahner) at a voltage of 20 mV. For this measurement, samples prepared as cylinders 10 mm in diameter were placed between Pt-coated plates. Five measure- ments were carried out under each set of conditions. The electrical conductivity was calculated with the following equation: 

where S, h, R, and A are the electrical conductivity (S/cm), thickness (cm), electrical resistance (U), and surface area (cm2) of the com- posite, respectively. 

3. Results and discussion


Before discussing the core-shell structured composite materials, BN/PPS, MWCNT/PPS, and BN-MWCNT/PPS binary ﬁller compos- ites, which contained a core, will be dealt with, in order to conﬁrm the effect of the ﬁller on the thermal and electrical conduction properties. The maximum ﬁller concentrations of BN and MWCNT were 30 wt% and 3 wt%, respectively. In addition, the BN-MWCNT/ PPS composite contained 10 wt% and 2 wt%, and 20 wt% and 1 wt% of BN and MWCNT, respectively. These ﬁller concentrations are relatively smaller than those of general thermal conductive com- posites. Unfortunately, owing to the high viscosity and sheer stress during melt mixing, they were the maximum ﬁller concentrations available using our fabrication equipment. As shown in Fig. 1(a) and the thermal conductivity of each composite increased (b), 

considerably according to the increase in the ﬁller concentration. This increase is related to the fact that thermally conductive ﬁller particles cohere easily to provide heat conduction paths; therefore, phonons are effectively transported, raising thermal conductivity. The in-plane thermal conductivity BN composite, especially, has a higher value than that of the through-plane conductivity in all composite materials. It is well known that BN has two-dimensional structured plate shape; its in-pane thermal conductivity is almost 20-times higher than that of through-plane [21]. This anisotropic particles causes a horizontal orientation during injection molding due to sheer force, resulting in the facilitation of an effective heat ﬂow in the horizontal direction, rather than in the perpendicular direction. Moreover, the thermal conductivity of the pristine PPS matrix also depended on direction. A polymer chain with a highly crystalline polymer, such as PPS, could also be oriented according to the injection ﬂow, which causes better heat ﬂow in the horizontal direction [22,23]. On the other hand, MWCNT composite show only small-enhanced in-plane thermal conductivity than through-plane. This results meaning that MWCNT was almost not oriented during injection molding. Moreover, as shown, the thermal conductivity of the BN and MWCNT binary ﬁller system was almost same with BN/ PPS composite, which indicates that BN and MWCNT did not have any speciﬁc synergetic effect in this melt mixing system. In terms of thermal conductivity, MWCNTs are a good ﬁller for causing a high thermal conductivity with only a low ﬁller concentration. However, in order to apply this composite in electric devices, electrical insulating properties are demanded, to prevent electrical shortage. It is well known that MWCNTs have not only an extremely high thermal conductivity, but also high electrical conductivity. There- fore, we investigated the electrical conductivity of the composites, and their results are shown in Fig. 1(c). BN particles in a PPS matrix form an electrically insulating material; that is, a BN/PPS composite naturally exhibits electrical insulation. On the other hand, only a small amount of MWCNTs caused a great increase in electrical conductivity. Only 2 wt% of MWCNTs enhanced the electrical 

Fig. 1. Thermal and electrical conductivity of BN-MWCNT/PPS composite with various ﬁller contents and particle composition. (a) through-plane thermal conductivity of composite, (b) in-plane thermal conductivity of composite, and (c) electrical conductivity of composite. 

(cid:1)4 S/cm, which is within the electrical conductivity from 10 conduction region. Moreover, in spite of the insulating BN particles in the BN-MWCNT hybrid system reducing conductivity, those values did not satisfy that for a desirable insulating property (lower than 10 

In Fig. 2, the cross-sectional morphology of BN, and MWCNTs composite is observed via FE-SEM. As shown in Fig. 2(a), the BN platelets were almost homogeneously dispersed and horizontally oriented according to injection ﬂow direction, which reveals a good agreement of particle orientation and a higher in-plane thermal conductivity than through-plane conductivity. Moreover, the large air gap between the basal plane of the particle and the polymer matrix is visible in this image. It is well known that the basal plane of BN is molecularly smooth, and has no surface functional groups available for chemical bonding or interaction, while the edge planes of the platelets do have functional groups, such as hydroxyl groups 

and amino groups [25]. Therefore, the air gap could be caused by poor interfacial afﬁnity between points in the basal PPS matrix. In the case of the MWCNT/PPS composite, the one-dimensional ﬁller did not tended to be horizontally oriented. Due to the few number of nanoscaled MWCNTs, only a weak sheer force was applied to the particles, resulting in incomplete particle orientation being ach- ieved, as compared with the BN particles. These observations of particle dispersion and orientation are good evidence for the pre- viously mentioned thermal conductivity. 

Based on the above BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS composites, the core-shell structures were fabricated after grinding, and their morphologies were observed via FE-SEM. As shown in Fig. 3, the ground PPS, BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS via particle coating, respec- tively, did not have any particular shape because the particle/ polymer mixture was ground via the mixer. After the BN and MWCNT coating, a rough surface due to the introduced particles 

Fig. 2. Cross-sectional SEM image of composite BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS via melt mixing method. (a) and (b) low and high magniﬁcation image of BN/PPS, and (c) and (d) low and high magniﬁcation of MWCNT/PPS. 

Fig. 3. Particle morphological SEM image of PPS and BN, MWCNT-coated PPS. (a) raw ground pellet, (b) and (c) low and high magniﬁcation image of BN/PPS pellet, and (d)e(f) low and high magniﬁcation image of MWCNT/PPS pellet. 

was observed. In order to verify the particle contents on the surface, TGA analysis was performed and the results are shown in Fig. 4. As it is well known that BN and MWCNT have good thermal resistivity, it was not surprising that weight loss did not occur in the experi- mental conditions. On the other hand, PPS was absolutely deformed at 800 (cid:3)C. From these differences in the weight loss, we conﬁrmed that a 18 and 11 wt% of BN and MWCNT, respectively, were introduced onto the surface. 

Using the fabricated core-shell structured pellets, BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS composite ﬁlms were fabricated via the hot-pressing method. Then, the cross-sectional morphologies were observed using FE-SEM. From Fig. 5, it is very clear that the BN and MWCNT 

Fig. 4. TGA thermograms of pristine BN, pristine PPS, pristine MWCNT and various particle coated PPS pellet. 

particles are not homogeneously distributed onto the outer layer in the PPS matrix, but are selectively localized at the interfaces be- tween the PPS particles in the composite materials. Obviously, the MWCNT@BN/PPS and BN@MWCNT/PPS composites, fabricated by particle coating onto composite pellets, formed clearly continuous BN and MWCNT networks at the interfaces between the PPS pellets. These networks are believed to function as thermally conductive pathway in the composites. 

In Fig. 6, thermal conductivity is compared according to BN and MWCNT coating, in order to conﬁrm the particle coating effect onto the melt mixed composite pellet. As shown, all the composites that were investigated revealed considerable thermal conductivity enhancement after particle coating, due to the increase in the total ﬁller concentration. However, a deﬁnite effect of the particle coating on the thermal conductivity cannot be compared with the melt mixed composites using this data, owing to the different ﬁller contents. In order to obtain a more reliable comparison, we intro- duced a theoretical model. Many theoretical models have been is- sued to explain the thermal conductivity of two-phase composites. In addition to these earlier models, the Agari model is introduced in this work. Agari and Uno modiﬁed the Maxwell model by assuming that the ﬁller particles form conductivity paths in the polymer matrix with a certain probability [18]. Indeed, the thermal con- ductivity expectation line can be obtained based on experimental results, which is the greatest advantage of this model. When comparing the theoretical value of a melt mixed BN composite with the experimental result of the BN@BN/PPS composite, the BN@BN/ PPS composite exhibits outstanding performance, in spite of the same ﬁller concentration. As mentioned in the introduction section, the melt mixing method is widely used as a commercial composite fabrication method, owing to its simple processing steps, ease of mass production, and homogeneous particle dispersion. Generally, uniform particle dispersion is one of the most important factors in obtaining high thermal conductivity. However, in this case, the uniform particle dispersion acts as a demerit because of the low ﬁller concentration [26,27]. In order to obtain high thermal con- ductivity, heat ﬂow channels should be generated according to the heat ﬂow direction. However, 30 wt% of ﬁller is insufﬁcient for 

Fig. 5. Cross-sectional SEM image of composite ﬁlms fabricated using particle coated pellet. (a) and (b) low and high magniﬁcation image of BN/PPS, (c)e(f) low and high magniﬁcation image of MWCNT/PPS. (d) PPS core part of MWCNT/PPS, (e) and (f) MWCNT shell part of MWCNT/PPS. 

forming particle connections and generating heat ﬂow channels. Generally, more than 50 wt% of ﬁller is necessary to generate heat ﬂow paths. On the other hand, for the BN@BN/PPS composite that was proposed in this manuscript, it seems that a continuous BN network was formed at the interfaces between the PPS pellets in the composite material, which functioned as 3-dimensional pathway for dissipating heat. Moreover, by using MWCNT in the core, the phonons in the PPS core moved into the outer particle layer along the MWCNT ﬁller, and also effectively ﬂowed through the formed BN shell structure between each pellet, resulting in the great thermal conductivity enhancement that was observed in the BN@MWCNT/PPS composite. On the other hand, the MWCNT coating showed only a small thermal conductivity enhancement, in spite of the large amount of ﬁller that was added. The greatest advantage of MWCNT to a thermally conductive ﬁller is its one- 

dimensional structure and superior thermal conductivity in the axial direction, which cause great improvement despite the low ﬁller concentration. However, surface-coated MWCNTs were aggregated and entangled with each other, resulting in those MWCNTs losing their orientation. 

The MWCNT coating enhanced thermal conductivity, but it also exhibited a crucial problem for applying it to thermally conductive composites. Substrate materials and thermal interfacial materials in electronic devices are major applications of thermally conductive composites. Therefore, thermally conductive composites must have electrically insulating properties. However, MWCNTs are not only good thermal conductors, but are also one of the best electrical conductors. The MWCNT coating onto BN/PPS and MWCNT/PPS greatly improved electrical conductivity, as shown in Fig. 7 by the values that represent the electrical conduction region. Therefore, 

Fig. 7. Electrical conductivity of MWCNT/PPS and BN, MWCNT coated MWCNT/PPS composite. 

Fig. 8. Tensile strength of pure PPS and BN/PPS, MWCNT/PPS composite with and without particle coating. 

MWCNT-coated composites cannot be applied to thermally conductive composites in electronic devices. On the other hand, the BN@MWCNT/PPS effectively reduced the electrical conductivity, as its value represents the insulation region, while MWCNT/PPS is placed in the semiconductor region because BN particles, which are strong electrically insulating materials, warp the MWCNT/PPS pellet and interrupt electron conduction. The thermal and electrical ﬂow onto composite ﬁlm was schematically expressed in Scheme 2. Lastly, tensile strength was measured in order to conﬁrm the mechanical property of PPS composite containing 20 wt% of BN and 2 wt% of MWCNT before and after particle coating (Fig. 8). As previous mentioned that superengineering plastic PPS exhibit outstanding mechanical property. After adding the BN ﬁller, tensile strength was decreased because the weak interaction with matrix and it act as mechanical defect. On the other hand, additional MWCNT enhanced the mechanical property, this trend is well known reinforcing effect. After the particle coating, mechanical property was decreased, especially, BN layer signiﬁcantly decrease tensile strength due to composite breakage was easily generated at interfaces. However, MWCNT coating almost not the pellet 

inﬂuenced onto tensile strength, it may be strong adhesion be- tween MWCNT and polymer matrix effectively prevent the breakage. Among them, BN@MWCT/PPS composite show similar value with other pure engineering plastics [28,29]. 

4. Conclusion


In this study, we adopted BN and MWCNT ﬁllers onto super- engineering PPS to enhance thermal conductivity. In order to avoid a high ﬁller concentration, a novel composite fabrication method was used. The BN- and MWCNT-containing PPS pellets obtained via melt mixing were used as the cores, and the particle outer layer was wrapped around the pellet using an adhesive epoxy material. This particle coating method exhibited higher thermal conductivity at the same ﬁller concentration, compared with melt mixing, because continuous heat ﬂow channels were formed at the surface of each pellet. Among then, the BN@MWCNT/PPS composite, in particular, showed outstanding thermal conductivity with electrical insu- lation. The BN layer effectively transported the heat and 

MWCNT coating, however, great enhancement of thermal con- ductivity was observed, while electrical conductivity also seriously increased, resulting in this combination being inappropriate for electrical substrates or packaging materials. Therefore, we concluded that the MWCNT/PPS composite BN coating are an adequate method for obtaining a material with high thermal con- ductivity and low electrical conductivity with adequate mechanical property, which is suitable for electronic devices. 

This work was supported by the Technology Innovation Program (10052903, Development of Integrated Circuit Implementation PPS Composite and 3D Modular Technology for Automotive Electronics) funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy (MI, Korea). 

