Thermal conductivity of 2D nano-structured boron nitride (BN) and its composites with polymers 

High thermal conductivity, structural stability, good mechanical and anti-oxidant properties makes hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) a promising functional ﬁller for polymers to produce composite materials where excellent thermal management is required, such as in electronic de- vices. Theoretical studies have revealed that two dimensional (2D) BN has higher thermal con- −1, in-plane) than bulk h-BN due to a reduction in phonon-phonon ductivity (up to 400 Wm scattering when scaling down the thickness of the material. For this reason, 2D boron nitride nanosheets (BNNS) are gaining intense interest since they could be utilised in the design of composite materials with excellent eﬃciency to dissipate heat. Various methods have been ex- plored to produce 2D BNNS including mechanical and chemical exfoliation of pristine bulk BN, chemical reaction, chemical vapour deposition (CVD) and electron irradiation. To facilitate the dispersion of BNNS in polymers, diﬀerent functionalization strategies have been applied for surface-treatment of BNNS. In this review, the diﬀerent synthesis approaches adopted for BNNS are compared and the eﬀects of BNNS dispersion on the thermal conduction of polymers are discussed. The factors inﬂuencing the mechanism of thermal conduction such as materials crystallinity, ﬁller geometry, ﬁller surface functionalization and alignment, ﬁller/matrix inter- face and processing conditions are discussed. Some perspectives and future directions on how to generate high thermally conductive composites of BNNS and polymer are proposed. 

1. Introduction


There continues to be growing interest in the study of boron nitride (BN) as a functional ﬁller for polymers due to its extraordinary properties including high thermal conductivity, structural stability, mechanical properties and anti-oxidation ability [1–15]. BN is a refractory chemical compound, produced synthetically since it is not found in nature. It consists of equal number of boron (B) and nitrogen (N) atoms and is isoelectronic to similar carbon structures. BN exists in various crystalline forms: the hexagonal form (h-BN) is analogous to graphite, the cubic form (c-BN) is isostructural to diamond and the amorphous form (a-BN) is similar to amorphous carbon. 

h-BN and graphite are similar in structure since both present layered sp2-bonded hexagonally packed sheets. However, in graphite the valence electrons are set in a conjugated system that makes it an electron conductor, while in BN the presence of two atoms with very diﬀerent electronegativity (boron = 2.04, nitrogen = 3.04) gives it partial ionic character, conferring to BN electron insulating properties [2,16]. This structural diﬀerence is also reﬂected in the optical properties of 2D materials, in that, BN is transparent or white if in bulk quantities [17–22] while graphite is black. Moreover, the arrangement of the layers in the two materials is diﬀerent, 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmatsci.2018.10.002 Received 13 November 2017; Received in revised form 7 September 2018; Accepted 20 October 2018 

Fig. 1. h-BN (a) and graphite (c) layer structural models. h-BN layers are perfectly overlapped (AA′ stacking) and it is not possible distinguish a top layer from one underneath (b). Graphite layers present a Bernal structure (AB stacking) and it is possible to distinguish the upper layer from a layer below (d). Reprinted from [23] with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry. 

in BN the sheets are in “registry” with the atoms of each layer eclipsed by the atoms of the upper and lower layers, while in graphite the layers are stacked according to a Bernal sequence (AB) [23]. Fig. 1 shows the diﬀerence between h-BN and graphite layer arrangement and Table 1 lists the main properties of BN and graphite. Experimentally, the thermal conductivity of graphene has been reported to be as high 5000 Wm/K, depending on the method employed and, theoretically using molecular dynamics to be as high as 10,000 Wm/K [24–26]. 

h-BN can be exfoliated and shaped in diﬀerent nanostructures such as 2D BN nanosheets (BNNS) [18,28–31] and BN spherical nanoparticles (BNNP) [32,33]. It is also possible to synthetize BN nanotubes (BNNT) from h-BN [34–38] by air plasma treatment or chemical vapour deposition (CVD). BN nanostructures may be used as ﬁllers to produce white or transparent [39] highly thermally conductive and electrically insulating polymer composites. However, the high BNNT surface tension (26.7 mN/m) and the high interfacial thermal resistance between the nanotubes and the matrix [40–43] make it more diﬃcult to adhere to the polymer matrix [44–46] compared to BNNS. 

This review is focused on the thermal conductivity of BN in both sheet and ﬂake form, the former having a 2D nanostructure and the latter having at least one dimension on the nanoscale and, when either are a functional ﬁller for polymeric materials. In parti- cular, the synthesis and properties of BNNS are described, with focus on the intrinsic thermal conductivity of BNNS and the trans- lation of this property to polymers. 

2. Synthesis and characterization of BN


2.1. Mechanical exfoliation


BNNS were ﬁrst obtained by mechanical exfoliation or cleavage, a technique developed in 2004 [47]. It relies on the use of an adhesive tape to peel oﬀ BN layers which are successively attached onto a substrate such as Si/SiO2. The layers obtained can be easily viewed under the optical microscope. Unfortunately, this procedure does not allow a few BN layers to be harvested, because of the strong lip-lip interactions between BN planes that stabilize the multi-layered structure [48,49]. BN nanosheets with thickness be- tween 3.5 and 80 nm have been obtained [48]. Additional shearing treatment may help break the Van der Waals interactions among the BN layers. A ball milling process was ﬁrstly applied to BN by Li et al. in 2011 [50]. In order to reduce the impact and associated attrition of the balls and contamination, a milling agent has to be used (e.g. benzyl benzoate, C14H12O2). Fig. 2 shows the SEM images of the nanosheets obtained using this technique and a schematic illustrating the action of the ball on the BNNS. 

Table 1 Comparison of properties between hexagonal boron nitride and graphite [27]. Reprinted from J. Mat. Sci. Technol., 31, Jiang XF, Weng QH, Wang XB, Li X, Zhang J, Golberg D, et al. Recent Progress on Fabrications and Applications of Boron Nitride Nanomaterials: A Review, 589–98, Copyright (2015), with permission from Elsevier. 

Fig. 2. SEM images of BNNS obtained by ball milling (a) and (c) the mechanism of action of the balls during milling (d) and (e). Reprinted from [23] with permission of The Royal Society of Chemistry. 

2.2. Chemical exfoliation (Sonication)


Han et al. [29] ﬁrst prepared mono-and-few layered BNNS by means of sonication of an organic dispersion containing h-BN crystals. Diﬀerent organic solvents such as N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), chloroform, 1,2-dichloroethane and methanesulfonic acid (MSA) [23] have been used. The combination of sonication and strong interactions between the solvent and BN surfaces permits exfoliation of the layers. The use of hydroxides like sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and potassium hydroxide (KOH) may assist layer separation. The adsorption of cations (Na+ or K+) on the outer BN surfaces leads to curling of the surfaces that allows the anions ) to penetrate between the layers, causing further curling of the layers and ﬁnally, adsorption and reaction between BN and (OH anions induces the layers to be peeled away from each other [23]. Sonication allows for sheets with thickness between 2 and 10 nm to be collected [23,49]. The chemical exfoliation process is shown schematically in Fig. 3. 

2.3. Wet chemical reaction


The number of layers can be adjusted by the reaction concentration [2]. For example, the layer thickness reduces with increasing urea concentration. 

BNNS were also produced via a template-free solid phase reaction, where NaBF4, NH4Cl and NaN3 powders were pressed into pellets at room temperature and reacted in an autoclave at 300 °C for 20 h according to the following reaction. BNNS ﬂakes were obtained by further solution sonication [52]. 

Chemical blowing reactions of NH3BH3 involves heating at atmospheric pressure from 80 °C to 110 °C to initiate dehydrogenation and to 400 °C to complete dehydrogenation. In this step, hydrogen was evolved from the BeNeH swollen system and the desired BN product obtained by further heating at 1400 °C for 3 h. In a ﬁnal step, a BN suspension was obtained via a combination of ultra- sonication and centrifugation. The ﬁnal product has a few layered structure with lateral dimensions of about 100 µm [53,54]. 

In another approach combustion-annealing processes can be used. By way of example, a viscous gel consisting of H3BO3, CH4N2O, NaN3 and NH4Cl in water was ignited at 600 °C in a muﬄe furnace. The resulting product was washed with water ﬁrst and then with 

Fig. 3. Schematic representation of BN chemical exfoliation where NaOH molecules ﬁrst cause curling of the sheets, starting from the edges, then ion penetration among the layers causes exfoliation and the formation of BNNS. 

ethyl alcohol, dried in a vacuum and annealed at 1000–1400 °C under nitrogen. With this procedure, it is possible to obtain BN nanoplatelets with a thickness of about 30 nm and lateral sizes of a few hundred nm [55]. BNNS with an average thickness of approximately 4 nm can be prepared from B2O3, Zn, N2H4·2HCl in an autoclave at 500 °C for 12 h then treated with HCl, ﬁltered and dried at 80 °C [56]. 

A further wet chemistry methodology is via the use of a substitution reaction. A graphite crucible is ﬁlled with B2O3 powder and covered by molybdenum oxide ((MoO3) as reaction promoter) and graphene sheets. The reaction is performed at 1650 °C for 30 mins under a nitrogen ﬂux. The product must be taken from the graphene substrate and heated in air at 650 °C for 30 mins in order to remove the graphene residue. The principle of this technique relies on the substitution of an atom (or functional group) in a com- pound with another atom (group) [57]. 

2.4. Chemical vapour deposition (CVD)


BNNS can be synthesized by chemical vapour deposition (CVD) techniques starting from diﬀerent precursors such as BF3-NH3, BCl3-NH3, borazine (B3N3H6), trichloroborazine (B3N3H6) or hexachloroborazine (B3N3Cl6) [58–66]. Borazine and its compounds are easier to use compared to BF3-NH3 and BCl3-NH3 since these precursors evolve two or more gases. Borazine (B3N3H6) is a compound similar to benzene except the atoms are boron and nitrogen in equal ratio and therefore the two parent atoms of the ﬁnal products are present in only one precursor. Thus, it is possible to avoid having to use more complicated systems using two or more gaseous precursors. 

Using a transition metal such as Pt(1 1 1), Ru(0 0 1), Ni(1 1 1), Cu(1 1 1), Pd(1 1 1), Pd(1 1 0), Fe(1 1 0), Mo(1 1 0), Cr(1 1 0), Rh (1 1 1) [67–78], at high temperature (1000 K) it is possible to synthetize a h-BN monolayer by dehydrogenation of borazine. The product morphology may change according to the diﬀerent metal used since the interfacial bonding between h-BN and the substrate are diﬀerent [65]. For example, using Rh(1 1 1) a particular structure called BN nanomesh is formed [67], consisting of a single corrugated layer. 

In low-pressure CVD it is possible to use gases produced from BH3-NH3 on Cu to obtain h-BN monolayer by nucleation of BN triangle shape islands on the substrate. In fact, at 70–90 °C these little islands grow and merge with each other to form a complete layer on the metal. Low precursor pressure is essential to achieve high quality 2D BN [79]. In 2010 a few layered BN ﬁlm (about 2–5 layers) was synthetized on Cu by thermal catalytic CVD [20]. A split tube furnace was used to place the substrate at 600 °C for 20 mins under Ar-H2 ﬂux. Successively BH3-NH3 was sublimated at 120–130 °C and carried in the furnace by the Ar-H2 ﬂux. Large and ﬂat BNNS were obtained if BN and Cu have similar lattice structures. 

2.5. Electron irradiation


Jin et al. [80] and Meyer et al. [81] in 2009 ﬁrst fabricated single layered BNNS by electron irradiation. BN ﬂakes of around 10 layers were ﬁrstly mechanically exfoliated then further ‘thinned’ by intensive electron beam irradiation down to a single layer. This method was ﬁrst used inside a TEM instrument to obtain BN monolayer. 

3. Thermal conductivity of BNNS


transparent in the range of 250–900 nm BxN: 190 BE/eV (B1s); BNx 398 BE/eV (N1s) Peak at 2θ = 26; lattice parameters: a = 0.250 nm, c = 0.666 nm; interlayer spacing:0.333 nm Elastic Modulus:220–510 Nm (thickness about 1–2 nm) 300–2000 W/mK (theoretical), 300–360 W/mK (experimental) > 600 °C 

3.1. Concept of thermal conductivity


The transfer of the vibrational energy of a particle to an adjacent particle without changing the centre of the mass is thermal conduction. In general, thermal conduction is due to two contributions [90], energized electron motion and phonon conduction, where a phonon is a quantum of vibrational energy. In a metal the former has a major contribution, while in a periodic and elastic system, thermal conduction can be exclusively described in terms of phonons. This property is greatly inﬂuenced by material type (i.e. plastics, metals, ceramic), size, binding energy, and morphology (i.e. crystalline structure, atomic density in the network) [90]. The particles on the surface of the material start to vibrate when exposed to a heat source. Subsequently, the heat is transferred to adjacent particles through vibration and, ultimately, through particle vibration throughout the whole material [90]. 

Thermal conductivity, κ (W/mK) quantiﬁes thermal conduction. When a temperature diﬀerence ΔT between two opposite faces of a material is imposed thermal conductivity describes the quantity of heat transferred through a certain thickness of material and along the direction perpendicular to the surface area in a certain time. Thermal conductivity can be determined from [90]: 

where κ is thermal conductivity, Cp is the speciﬁc heat at constant pressure, ρ is density and ɑ is thermal diﬀusivity. It is a measure of the speed of heat transfer (length2/time). The thermal conductivity (hence thermal conduction) of a material is an intrinsic property of material composition. In Eq. (1), if Cp and ρ are constant, then thermal conductivity is constant. If Cp and ρ of the material change as a function of temperature, then thermal conductivity changes. Additionally, for an isotropic material heat diﬀuses uniformly whatever the direction, while for an anisotropic material, thermal conductivity depends also on the direction of heat ﬂux. Therefore, thermal conductivity is properly described by a tensor and it is a function of direction and temperature [88]: 

3.2. Thermal conductivity in crystalline materials and polymers


In a crystalline material such as BN, graphene, metals, any discontinuity (i.e. dislocations, point defects, grain boundaries and interfaces) causes a reduction in thermal conductivity, known as Kapitza resistance [94]. Indeed, in a crystalline material the heat propagates through the material as a harmonic wave where all the particles oscillate in the same way at the same frequency. Discontinuity points result in heterogeneity in the structure and particles vibrate diﬀerently at diﬀerent frequencies. This anhar- monicity leads to a phonon scattering phenomena, causing a reduction of thermal conductivity. The phonon scattering means that the phonons are not transferred as a unique wave anymore and it may happen in diﬀerent ways [95]: (i) phonon-phonon scattering: in an ideal case, atoms harmonically vibrate during heat ﬂux. However, atoms vibrate at diﬀerent frequencies and phonons ﬂip their direction causing scattering; (ii) phonon-interface scattering: this type of scattering is due to the presence of interfaces in a material. It is inevitable since all the materials have ﬁnite dimensions, namely interfaces and disconnections and, (iii) phonon-defect scattering: this type of scattering occurs when defects are present in the material. Any defect is a barrier to heat ﬂux and results in phonon scattering. 

For semi-crystalline polymers, the amorphous phase behaves as structural defects that diﬀuse heat slowly. Even highly crystalline polymers still contain intrinsic defects (e.g. chain ends, chain folding), the heat propagation in crystals and polymeric materials can be described by the Newton pendulum model, as shown in Fig. 4. 

Fig. 4. Newton pendulum model: (a) perfect crystalline material behaviour to heat propagation; (b) polymer behaviour to heat propagation [90]. Reprinted from Prog Polym Sci, 61, Burger N, Laachachi A, Ferriol M, Lutz M, Toniazzo V, Ruch D, Review of thermal conductivity in composites: mechanisms, parameters and theory, 1–28, Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier. 

As shown in Fig. 4a, a crystalline material is a perfect Newton system where the ordered structure (shown as spheres) facilitates the heat to pass from a particle face to another very quickly without any loss of energy. Conversely, in Fig. 4b, the heat travels through defects in polymers such as the amorphous component and the vibration of the entire chains, causing a disordered oscillation leading to a loss of energy from one particle to another, therefore, most polymers are highly thermally insulating, with κ values in the range 0.2–0.4 Wm 

where κ is the thermal conductivity of the composite and V is ﬁller content by volume. The A term is related to the limiting eﬀect of thermal conductivity of the polymer on the thermal conductivity of the ﬁller. The B term takes into account the eventual changes in polymer crystallinity upon ﬁller incorporation. The two terms are expressed by Eqs. (5) and (6). 

where κ1 and κ2 are the thermal conductivity of the polymer matrix and ﬁller respectively. The ease at which a connecting conductive ﬁller path is formed can be expressed by the Cf (> 0) factor and Cp is the speciﬁc heat capacity of the polymer. The ratio κ2/κ1 in Eq. (5) is deﬁned as the “reduced thermal conductivity of the ﬁller” and indicates how much the thermal conductivity of the ﬁller in the composite is lower than the thermal conductivity of the pure ﬁller. This means that it is not possible for a polymer based composite to have the same ability to dissipate heat of the embedded ﬁller because the polymer acts as a limiting barrier to heat ﬂow [96]. 

3.3. Thermal conductivity of composites with BN as an additive (ﬁller)


The addition of highly thermally conductive ﬁllers to polymers can improve the thermal conduction of the polymer matrix, including carbon- [97–104], metallic [105–108] and ceramic ﬁllers [109–113]. Among which h-BN with thermal conductivity up to 400 W/mK at room temperature is extremely promising. Theoretical studies suggest that even higher thermal conductivity may be reached if a reduction in phonon-phonon scattering in the 2D layers can be overcome [23]. In fact, the interlayer coupling facilitates out-of-plane vibration and hence phonon scattering. The thermal conductivity decreases from a monolayer to a multilayer structure up to converge to bulk h-BN thermal conductivity when a few layer system is simulated [114]. It is worth noting that the exceptional electrical insulation and thermal conductivity properties of BN make it a highly interesting material for battery applications. 

Filler geometry such as lateral dimensions, sheet/layer thickness and aspect ratio all determine the thermal conductivity of BN. In fact, smaller ﬁller particles cause more phonon scattering than larger ones due to the higher density of interfaces. This leads to a reduction of the thermal conductivity [115,116]. Michael Shtein et al. [115] managed to enhance the thermal conductivity of composites of epoxy resins and GNP by adding ﬁller particles having a lateral size of around 20 µm, a thickness of around 10 nm and an aspect ratio of around 1000. The ﬁnal thermal conductivity was almost four times higher than the pure matrix. 

Several workers reported that it is possible to enhance the thermal conductivity of polymers by adding BNNS on the micrometre length scale [117,118]. By way of example, Hatsuo Ishida et al. [117] increased the thermal conductivity of polybenzoaxine up to 30 times higher than the pure matrix, by adding BNNS having a lateral sizes of 225 µm for a loading of 78.5 vol%. Surprisingly, the eﬀect of BNNS geometry on κ has been poorly investigated. 

Composites produced by diﬀerent processes may present diﬀerent characteristics. Moreover, according to the procedure adopted, defects can be created both on the micro-scale, such as voids and, on the macro-scale such as porosity. Additionally, higher ﬁller loading generally results in increased viscosity in the melt state which can be detrimental since the higher the viscosity, the larger the porosity of the ﬁnal material [23]. To date, the main processes used for production of composites of polymers and BNNS are sonication [1,2,119,120], ball-milling [121–123], pressing [117,124,125] and mixing [5,126–129]. Each method directly impacts the state of ﬁller dispersion and distribution in the polymer matrix, an important parameter in attaining a composite material with enhanced thermal conductivity. 

Achieving eﬀective dispersion of the ﬁller in the polymer matrix is a non-trivial task, since the ﬁller particles, especially on the nanoscale tend to agglomerate due to their high surface energy [130]. Mackay et al. reported that a stable dispersion of molten polymer and nanoparticles forms when the polymer radius of gyration is larger than the nanoparticle radius. For example, in a system made of polystyrene nanoparticles in polystyrene the miscibility occurs when the polystyrene radius of gyration is 1–4 times larger than the nanoparticle radius [131]. It is important to note that the extent of dispersion is not so inﬂuential on composite properties at lower ﬁller concentration but it aﬀects composite performance at high ﬁller loadings [132–134]. This may be due to the segregation of the ﬁller in the polymer for very low concentrations [135]. It is also essential to underline that thermal conductivity is more inﬂuenced by the interactions between ﬁller particles in the matrix rather than ﬁller content (number of ﬁller particles) [136]. In fact, 

a three dimensional thermal network is produced when the level of particle interactions is high, reducing interfacial thermal re- sistance (ITR) but improving thermal conductivity [136]. Previous studies pointed to the existence of diﬀerent dispersion states for a 2D platelet like ﬁller in a polymer matrix [137–139], namely separated, intercalated and exfoliated, depending on the technique used to prepare the composites and the aﬃnity between matrix and ﬁller [137,139]. Usually low miscibility and exfoliation leads to the formation of a separated phase consisting of a structure of very large agglomerates of ﬁller. The intercalated phase still presents a stacked structure but with major interlayer spacing (few nm) than the separated one. Finally, in the exfoliated conﬁguration the ﬁller is well dispersed in the polymer and the sheets have the largest surface area and hence aspect ratio. 

Eﬀective dispersion is a fundamental requirement to achieve improved thermal conductivity of a polymer matrix on addition of BN since an interconnected touching network of BN particles is required so as to create an optimal thermal path through the matrix via particle-particle connectivity [135]. It is important to highlight that higher thermal conductivity is not always obtained by high levels of dispersion. Indeed, the higher the level of dispersion, the more interfaces are created in the system, acting as Kapitza resistance. On the other hand, isolated ﬁller agglomerates are not eﬃcient thermal conductors as a dispersed system at low ﬁller concentration. Presumably, in some cases the interfaces depending on the extent of the dispersion are less detrimental than the large mean inter-particle distances [90]. It is clear the importance of the ﬁller-polymer interface in determining the thermal conductivity of a composite material. 

Naskar et al. [141] stated that in order to improve the properties of composites it is essential to create a continuous phase where the polymer is immobilized on the nanoparticle surfaces. For example, they report that a continuous phase on the micrometre-scale can be reached when both graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) and carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are added to epoxy resin, improving me- chanical properties. This is due to an enhancement of polymer/ﬁller adhesion by adding an inclusive material (graphene in this case) that reduces the distance between the polymer and the ﬁller, in eﬀect the interface. Fig. 5 shows the diﬀerence between a dis- continuous and a continuous phase. 

By reducing the interface between polymer and ﬁller it is also possible to improve the thermal conductivity of composites. Large interfaces, in fact, cause phonon scattering [42,142]. Furthermore, the larger the interface region the longer the time for heat dissipation. Therefore, a perfect compatibility has to be reached between ﬁller and matrix in order to reduce the size of the interface and hence phonon scattering. Besides small particle inclusion in the composite as mentioned above, ﬁller surface functionalization is a further methodology utilised to improve ﬁller compatibility with the matrix to achieve high levels of dispersion. 

The most common method adopted when functionalizing BNNS is via covalent functionalization, which relies on a chemical reaction with a particular functional group. Hydroxide compounds are used to enhance the mechanical exfoliation of BNNS and also used to functionalize BN, as well as the reaction with other inorganic substances such as acids or peroxides [40,120,143–145]. Organic compounds such as stearic acid derivatives [121], organic acids [110,140,146], isocyanate [147], phenyletilamine [148], alcohols [149], silane derivatives [16,125,150–155] and polysilazane [156] are also alternatives to inorganic acids. Some authors reported ad hoc structures synthetized in order to functionalize BN [157] but, usually these structures are amphiphilic compounds having therefore a group that is compatible with the ﬁller and another group compatible with the matrix. In this way, the structure 

Fig. 5. On the left: ﬁller particles do not adhere onto polymer chain. This increases the polymer/ﬁller interface, which results into a discontinuous phase. On the right: by adding inclusive particle, it is possible to immobilize the polymer chain onto the ﬁller particles. This reduces the polymer/ ﬁller interface, which results into a continuous phase by creating a 3D network. 

Silane derivatives are the most used. However, BN is not reactive with silane-based agents. In fact, silane compounds are quite reactive toward hydroxyl groups that are not present in boron nitride [150,158–160] unless in very small quantities depending on the procedure adopted to exfoliate the pristine ﬁller. For this reason, some experiments report a previous BN treatment with a hydroxide and then the ﬁller is further functionalized with a silane compounds such as dimethylsiloxane and 3-ammino-propyl-3-ethoxy-sylane [16,151,152]. 

Another approach is via a low oxidation route [161] where BNNS at high temperatures in presence of air promotes the in- troduction of oxygen groups onto the BNNS surface. A similar procedure uses an organic peroxide to facilitate the oxygen radical reaction. The hydroxyl groups formed after reaction with the peroxide are removed by way of hydrolysis [162]. 

Air plasma treatment is a promising functionalization method since it doesn’t involve chemicals, it is relatively simple and allows control of BN wettability and hence adhesion properties [163]. This technique relies on the use of an air ﬂow, made of essentially nitrogen, oxygen and water vapour, undertaking a heating process at high temperatures. This allows oxygen to react with water vapour forming ions such as [H+], [O2− ] which are very reactive and attack the BN surface. The process starts from BN sheet edges since they are more reactive due to the presence of dandling bonds and followed by reactions inside the BN structure, where defects like vacancies are usually present [163]. The mechanism is very complex and involves diﬀerent processes such as Lewis acid-base reactions where hydroxyl groups act as acid while boron acts as base. Moreover, the ions may also attack the BeN bond forming new chemical links. The functionalization introduces OH groups which create a wettability gradient on the BN surface depending on how much surface is exposed to the treatment [163]. This is a most interesting result since having control over wetting properties opens up many potential applications in ﬁelds such as inkjet printing and surface-directed liquid ﬂow [164–169]. 

Other workers reported non-covalent functionalization through π-π interactions using compounds containing alkyl amine, alkyl phosphine, and aromatic groups [18,170-172]. Fig. 6 provides a schematic representation of the main functionalization procedures reported to modify BNNS. 

It is possible by directing ﬁller particles along the same axis in the polymer matrix, to enhance the thermal conductivity of the composite material. For this purpose, tape cast [40], spin-cast [173], shear alignment [174], use of magnetic [146,175–178] or electric ﬁelds [179] have been employed to align BNNS. Recently, the application of magnetic ﬁelds to align BNNS has aroused an increasing interest since it is possible to control ﬁller particle orientation and direction [180,181]. Fig. 7 shows the alignment of the ﬁller in the polymer matrix when applying a magnetic ﬁeld [175]. It can be seen that in an ideal conﬁguration the ﬁller is perfectly aligned along the direction of the applied magnetic ﬁeld (a and b), while in the case of random alignment (c) it is not possible to establish a unique orientation axis: 

In order to apply this technique, the ﬁller has to be responsive to the applied magnetic ﬁeld. Neat BNNS has a low magnetic dipole and therefore was coated with magnetic nanoparticles such as Ni, Fe, Co [182] and Fe3O4 [175,180]. The drawback of this approach is related to ﬁller content, if it is too high alignment is hindered by the steric interaction between ﬁller particles [176]. 

4. BN application as ﬁller in thermoplastic and thermoset based composites


The majority of polymers such as common thermoplastics (e.g. poly(ethylene), poly(propylene), poly(amides)) and thermosets (e.g. epoxy resins) are insulators and have low thermal conductivity but, as described above, this property can be improved by addition of an appropriate ﬁller, such as BN. If the application requires both eﬃcient electric insulation and thermal conduction like 

Fig. 7. Alignment along magnetic ﬁeld axis orientation (a and b) with the corresponding cross-sectional and top view FIB-SEM images (d, g, e, and f). Filler random conﬁguration (c) and corresponding FIB-SEM images (f and i) [175]. Reprinted with permission from Yuan C, Duan B, Li L, Xie B, Huang M, Luo X. Thermal Conductivity of Polymer-Based Composites with Magnetic Aligned Hexagonal Boron Nitride Platelets. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2015;7:13000–6. Copyright (2015) American Chemical Society. 

in certain electronic applications, BN ﬁlled polymers are one solution [183]. Materials scientists are working hard to ﬁnd an optimal formulation of BN polymer composite for electronic devices, in order to face the critical challenge of heat dissipation. Normally thermal conduction is the means through which electric devices dissipate the heat produced during their operation [184,185], but if the thermal conductivity of the material which the device is made of is not suﬃciently high, then heat is not eﬃciently dissipated, causing a reduction in the service life of the device. 

4.1. Composites of thermoplastic polymers and 2D BN


There are relatively few publications which focus on the study of the thermal conductivity of composites of thermoplastics ﬁlled with 2D BN and in many instances the BN ﬁller is not well characterised [124,130,135,147,151,156,186–190] therefore, it is quite diﬃcult to extract the inﬂuence of ﬁller (chemical composition, morphology, surface characteristics, shape and size) on thermal conductivity of the system of interest. In other cases [146,151,157,191], very low thermal conductivity values are reported for the ﬁnal composites (< 1 W/mK) and the results are seldom deeply discussed. In other instances the heat ﬂux mechanism in the ﬁnal composite is analysed just in terms of the thermal diﬀusivity [149,157,174] and this is not appropriate since, as explained in the previous sections, thermal conduction is quantiﬁed by thermal conductivity and hence thermal diﬀusivity alone is not informative, see Eq. (3). Moreover, many publications report just the value obtained for thermal conductivity (κ) of the composite of interest and seldom account for other important factors in determining κ, including polymer crystallinity, composite preparation technique and 

cooling regime. Suplicz et al. studied the correlation between change in PP crystallinity and thermal conductivity as a function of BN loading and highlighted the role of melt processing in determining κ [188]. From DSC studies on injection moulded samples, the authors observed that the crystallinity of the composites after the ﬁrst heating was around 6% lower than pure PP. The authors proposed that the higher thermal conductivity of the composites due to BN inclusion leads to a higher cooling rate in the mould after injection, i.e. the composites cool down quicker than the pure PP, causing the drop in crystallinity in the composites. Similar behaviour was obtained by Radhakrishnan et al. for silica-PP based composites [189]. Moreover, these workers also observed an increase in composite crystallinity relative to unﬁlled PP for the cooling and the second heating cycle DSC experiments. The authors asserted that the ﬁller acts as a nucleating agent increasing the crystallinity in the ﬁnal material. However, this eﬀect is evident at low cooling rate as that one used for the DSC analysis; conversely, it obscured at high rate of cooling as that one used in the injection moulding machine. Therefore, having control over the cooling rate when projecting a composite with high thermal conductivity is crucial to ensure the success of the ﬁnal material performance. As mentioned above A. Suplicz et al. obtained a composite with a thermal conductivity of 1.2 W/mK. Table 3 shows the highest values reported in literature at the time of writing for the thermal conductivity of composites prepared from polymers and BN and the corresponding composite preparation technique adopted. 

A typical value of thermal conductivity for BN-ﬁlled thermoplastic composites is in the range 1 to 5 W/mK. The highest values of thermal conductivity were obtained by Xie et al. [40] (4.5 W/mK), Shin et al. [186] (∼ 5 W/mK) and Kuang et al. (5.47 W/mK). Xie et al. associated their value for composite thermal conductivity to the alignment of the ﬁller in the matrix by applying a magnetic ﬁeld during the processing. Shin et al. assigned their results to the reduction of the thermal resistance at ﬁller/matrix interface with increasing ﬁller particle size (BNNS lateral size = 20 µm). Kuang et al. [118] proposed that the thermal conductivity obtained was a consequence of the high levels of orientation of the ﬁller in the matrix achieved via an oscillatory shearing of the composite on a two- roll mill. 

4.2. Composites of thermosetting polymers and 2D BN


Among thermoset polymers, epoxy resins are widely used due to their excellent chemical resistance, adhesion and mechanical properties [193]. However, epoxy resins have very low thermal conductivity values (0.15–0.35 W/mK) [194] which limits their application in ﬁelds where heat dissipation is crucial (e.g. in electronic devices and CFRP tooling). 

Researchers have focused on thermoset-based composites ﬁlled with BN in order to enhance the thermal conductivity of the matrix polymer. In some cases, the thermal conductivity is quite low (< 1 W/mK) [1,144,145,153,195,196]. Researchers have achieved higher thermal conductivity values by using diﬀerent shapes of BN, such as BN particles [125] (10.31 W/mK) or BN aggregates and whiskers [143]. It is evident that the geometry of the ﬁller particle plays an important role in determining the thermal conductivity of the composite material. However, the shape of the ﬁller is not always reported in the published literature [116,147,155]. Table 4 lists the highest values reported in literature for the thermal conductivity of composites prepared from thermosets and BN. 

As shown in Table 4, the values for thermal conductivity of epoxy resins ﬁlled with BN cover a wide range and are achieved at high ﬁller content and, in all instances at ﬁller loadings that are not commercially viable. The highest value (100 W/mK) was obtained by Zhu et al. [119]. The authors proposed that this was due to the functionalization of BNNS with hydroxyl groups after dispersing the ﬁller in isopropyl alcohol. In fact, the presence of hydroxyl groups on BNNS make them chemically compatible with the structure of the wood derived polymer surface used as the matrix. 

Other functionalizing agents have been adopted to make BN compatible with polymer matrixes. Kim et al. studied the en- hancement of composite thermal conductivity when the BN ﬁller was treated with glycidoxypropyl trimetoxysilane [16], but the value of κ obtained was a factor of ∼35 less than that reported in [114]. In fact, the hydroxyl groups of the functionalizing agent improve the interactions between ﬁller and matrix. 

It is also interesting to note that Xu et al. [125] who used the same functionalized agent, obtained a value of thermal conductivity almost four times higher than Kim et al. [16], although both used a laser ﬂash method to determine κ. This discrepancy may be associated with the more eﬀective composites preparation process utilized by Xu et al. [125]. 

Wang et al. [198] achieved a value of 3 W/mK which was associated with improved interfacial interactions between ﬁller and matrix by functionalizing BNNS with silver nanoparticles. The authors proposed that the thermal conductivity of the composite was due to the decreasing thermal resistance between BNNS and matrix by bridging them with silver nanoparticles. Other workers attained enhanced thermal conductivity through the addition of BN having large particle sizes (225 µm) [117], or by aligning the BN particles in polymers in the attempt to create a ﬁller network through which the heat can be eﬃciently dissipated [173,176,177]. By way of comparison, the thermal conductivity of graphene ﬁlled polymers, particularly with epoxy resins has been studied and values of 14 Wm/K have been recorded when the graphene is part of a hybrid ﬁlled system [199–201]. Values as high as 90 Wm/K have been reported when graphene was laminated on to poly(ethylene terephthalate) substrates [202]. 

5. Concluding remarks and future perspectives


The extraordinary properties of 2D BN, including high thermal conductivity combined with structural stability, good mechanical properties and anti-oxidation ability have aroused intense research interest in this material as a functional ﬁller for polymers. Thermal conduction is a complex process and depends on diﬀerent parameters correlated to both the ﬁller and matrix employed to prepare the composite, including morphology, crystallinity, chemical composition, ﬁller functionalization and level of dispersion in the polymer matrix, ﬁller alignment in the polymer, processing techniques employed to prepare the composite and most importantly 

Fillers with high aspect ratio and crystallinity are required to improve thermal conductivity of composite materials and achieve a reduction in Kapitza resistance. In this sense, BNNS are interesting, as theoretical studies have shown it has a higher thermal con- ductivity value than bulk h-BN, due to a reduction in phonon scattering of 2D BN. Typical experimental values for thermal con- ductivity of BNNS are in the range of 300–360 W/mK [89]. 

Chemical compatibility between BNNS and the polymer matrix is key to achieving a composite material with signiﬁcantly en- hanced thermal conductivity. The most common routes for chemical functionalization of BNNS have been by using silane agents or via plasma processes. Furthermore, the BNNS must be highly dispersed with the polymer matrix. However, it should be noted that high levels of BNNS dispersion does not imply higher composite thermal conductivity since the greater the extent of dispersion, the higher the interfacial resistance between ﬁller and matrix, leading to a reduction in thermal conductivity. Indeed, even the addition of the most highly thermally conducting ﬁller does not imply that composite materials will have very high thermal conductivity. This behaviour is associated with the resistance of the polymer against the heat ﬂux that results in reduced thermal conductivity. In order to overcome this problem, it is possible to address polymer heat ﬂux by aligning the ﬁller (BNNS) in the matrix in a given direction. In this way, it is possible to create a ﬁller network where the heat ﬂux is eﬃciently dissipated. 

(ii) BNNS – polymer interface: critical to attaining a high thermal conducting composite is the formation of an interconnecting BNNS network throughout the polymer matrix. The BNNS must be touching as to minimise interfacial thermal resistance (ITR) and promote phonon conduction. Diﬀerent functionalisation strategies are required to knit the BNNS network together within the polymer matrix without degrading the intrinsic thermal conducting properties of BNNS. 

(iii) BNNS dispersion: it must be possible to homogeneously disperse BNNS throughout the polymer matrix using industrially re- levant processes, e.g. extrusion or compounding with regard thermoplastics and high shear mixing with regard thermosets such as epoxies. 

