Multiple synergistic effects of graphene-based hybrid and hexagonal born nitride in enhancing thermal conductivity and flame retardancy of epoxy Yuezhan Fenga,b, Gaojie Hana, Bo Wanga, Xingping Zhoub,⁎ Chuntai Liua,⁎ a Key Laboratory of Materials Processing and Mold, Ministry of Education, National Engineering Research Center for Advanced Polymer Processing Technology, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450002, China b Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage, Ministry of Education, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China c Key Laboratory for Micro‐/Nano‐Optoelectronic Devices, Ministry of Education, School of Physics and Electronics, Hunan University, Changsha 410022, China 

retardant effects was used as sy- nergistic filler. 

connection induce the high heat con- duction. 

contribute to the improved fire re- sistance. 

The heat shock, thermal aging and fire hazard of induced by delayed heat diffusion in microelectronic devices require a high-efficiency thermal management system with high-performance electronic packaging materials. In this work, the significant thermal conductivity and flame retardancy of polymer-based thermally conductive composites (PTCs) are addressed by multiple synergistic effects of hexagonal born nitride (hBN) and few flame- retardant functionalized graphene. Briefly, a multifunctional hydrophilic graphene-based hybrid containing Ni (OH)2 nanoribbons and reduced graphene oxide (RGO) was synthesized by two-step hydrothermal process. The resulted RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid and hBN sheets (lateral size of 4.37 ± 1.68 μm and thickness of 80 ± 21 nm) used as synergistic and main fillers, respectively, was simultaneously added into EP matrix. As expected, the binary fillers showed multiple synergistic effects for improving the thermal conductivity and flame retardancy of composites. Typically, the good dispersion and interfacial interaction of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid in matrix can not only inhibit the stacking aggregation behavior of hBN sheets, but also bridge adjacent hBN sheets, both of which resulted in a high thermal conductivity (2.01 W/mK) of ternary composites with a synergistic increment of 39.4% comparing to EP/hBN. On the other hand, their synergistic flame retarding effect including catalytic carbonization, endothermic action and barrier effect induced by RGO@Ni(OH)2, as well as “tortuous path” effect 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2019.122402 Received 1 April 2019; Received in revised form 30 July 2019; Accepted 31 July 2019 Available online 01 August 2019 1385-8947/ © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 

of hBN sheets, jointly led to the formation of a compact and robust char layer in condensed phase during combustion. As a result, EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 exhibited a desired flame ratardancy with considerable re- ductions being seen in peak heat release rate, total heat release and total smoke production, i.e., 33.5%, 33.8% and 43.0% comparing to neat EP. 

1. Introduction


The continuously increasing heat density in microelectronic devices induced by their miniaturization and integration in modern electronics, makes thermal management system with highly efficient and effective thermal conductive materials be one of the keys to ensuring the working life and safety [1,2]. Polymer-based thermally conductive composites (PTCs) have been widely used as electronic packaging ma- terials to link the heat sources (chips or integrated circuits) and heat sink (or air), because of their light density, low cost, flow processing and high sealing [3–5]. Nevertheless, the intrinsic low thermal con- ductivity (TC < 0.5 W/mK) and flammability of polymers, as well as the high heat accumulation and loss in electronic packaging materials, inducing the issues of heat shock, thermal aging and fire hazard, se- verely limited their application in advanced electronic products [6,7]. Consequently, it is hugely desirous to develop a suitable strategy to prepare high-performance PTCs with high TC and flame retardancy, which is significant both in academic research and industrial applica- tion. 

In general, incorporating inorganic fillers into matrix is main ap- proach to fabricate high-performance polymer composites in industry. Development of high-performance fillers, often determining the final properties, is believed to be the first critical factor for preparing high- performance composites. Recently, two-dimensional (2D) layered ma- terials, such as graphene, hexagonal boron nitride (hBN), molybdenum sulfide (MoS2) etc., have drawn great attention of scientists because of their large specific surface area and attractive properties [8–10]. Among them, as one of the graphene analogs with unique isoelectronic structure, hBN shows lots of excellent performances including well in- plane thermal conductivity (200–600 W/mK), ultrahigh electrical in- sulation and breakdown strength, superb thermal stability and oxida- tion resistance, outstanding dielectric property and low friction coeffi- cients [11,12]. Combining its high aspect ratio 2D structure, these features make hBN as a promising candidate for producing polymer composites with high integrated properties, containing the high TC and flame retardancy [13,14]. However, similar to most of inorganic par- ticles, the poor dispersion and weak interfacial interaction of hBN in matrix, resulting in both the degradation of thermally conductive path and the damage the barrier layer during combustion, still limit the further improvement in TC and flame retardancy for PTCs. To solve the issues, surface modification and interlayer exfoliation are considered to be two effective strategies [15–17]. Unfortunately, the very inert sur- face with less active groups as well as the high strong interlayer in- teraction of hBN seriously restrict the mass-production development of the surface modification and interlayer exfoliation strategies, especially for preparing PTCs with relative high filler loading. Therefore, ex- ploring an effective strategy to improve the dispersion and interfacial interaction of hBN remains a formidable challenge for scalable pre- paration PTCs. 

To improve the TC property of PTCs, synergistic effect strategy with the potential in scale-production is often employed both in industry and academia due to its simple and low-cost process [18]. In this strategy, slight easily-dispersed nanofillers, such as graphene oxide (GO), carbon nanotube (CNT), cellulose and their derivatives, are often used to im- prove the dispersion of TC fillers (e.g., hBN [19], Al2O3 [6], SiC [20], AlN [21] etc.). Zhang et al. [22] revealed that the significant im- provement in dispersion of CNT in polymer matrix by adding slight GO, further resulting in the 332% increment for TC property. In addition to the intrinsic thermal conductive nanoparticles also act an this, 

important bridging joint between TC fillers, resulting in the formation of more efficient TC paths [23]. In this respect, CNT and graphene derivatives with ultrahigh intrinsic TC and aspect ratio can easily connect each other at low filler content. As a result, the significant bridging effects induced by CNT or graphene have been reported to improve the TC property of PTCs in previous literatures [20–25]. For example, the report of Suh et al. [24] revealed an amazing enhance- ment in TC of epoxy/silver flakes composites (9634% increment from 1.64 to 160 W/mK) by introducing 2.3 vol% silver-functionalized CNTs, where the welding behavior of grafted Ag nanoparticles drastically reinforces the bridging effect of CNTs to enhance both the electronic and lattice (phonon) TC. In view of the arresting action, synergistic dispersion strategy is identified as a feasibly scalable approach to solve the dispersion and interface problems of hBN in PTCs. 

On the other hand, 2D graphene with surface flame retardant functionalization has been proved to be effective flame retardant ad- ditives in improving the fire resistance of polymers without damaging their mechanical and thermal properties, while minimizing environ- mental disruption when comparing to individual organic or inorganic flame retardants [26,27]. Phosphorus/nitrogen/silicon-containing or- ganics, transition metal oxides, and metal hydroxides have been proved to be as effective synergistic surface modifiers for graphene [28–30]. Their synergistic flame retardation mechanisms including the catalytic carbonization effect, barrier effect, free radical adsorption etc., are be- lieved to contribute the improving flame retardancy. Taking cost, eco- environment, and dispersion into consideration, the hydrophilic tran- sition metal hydroxide (TMH) nanoparticles combining multiple flame- retardant effects of hydroxides and transition metal oxide, including endothermic decomposition reaction of metal hydroxides, catalytic carbonization and smoke suppression effect of transition metal oxides, free radical adsorption ability of its decomposition products (nano- particles), as well as strong interfacial hydrogen-bond interaction with polymers [31], are believed as the ideal inorganic modifiers [28,32]. Their simple, high-efficiency and eco-friendly wet-chemical synthesis methods of TMH nanoparticles make the mass-production of flame-re- tardant functionalization graphene to be possible [33,34]. Moreover, comparing to zero/one-dimensional (0D/1D) forms, 2D TMHs (e.g., nanosheets or nanoribbons) with the high aspect ratio and specific area can endow the outstanding dispersion for graphene when hybridizing them. For this reason, the hybridized graphene by 2D THMs has been used as ideal flame retardant additives for polypropylene [28], ABS [35], poly(methyl methacrylate) [36], etc. Combining the synergistic enhancement effect in preparing high-performance PTCs, the 2D gra- phene/THM hybrid is expected to be the well synergistic nanofillers showing multiple synergistic effects with 2D hBN both in thermal conductivity, flame retardancy, and other properties. 

Our previous works have confirmed the existence of synergistic enhancement effects between graphene and 0D Al2O3 particles and 1D silver nanowires in PTCs [6,37]. In contrast, the unique 2D layered structure with high thermal conductivity, stability and oxidation re- sistance make hBN as an ideal candidate in preparing highly thermal conductive and flame retardant PTCs. Therefore, the multiple sy- nergistic effects of 2D hBN and graphene are expected to work in im- proving dispersion, bridging TC paths, flame retardancy, and so on. In this work, 2D Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon with ultrahigh specific surface area and outstanding dispersion was synthesized by one-step hydrothermal process (Scheme 1a), then further used to hybridize with reduced gra- phene oxide (RGO) by another step hydrothermal process (Scheme 1b). Such the hydrophilic hybrid was used as the synergistic filler to prepare 

Scheme 1. Illustrations of synthesis routes of (a) Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon and (b) RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid by “two-step” hydrothermal process. (c) Multiple synergistic effects of hBN and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid in epoxy matrix. 

high-performance epoxy/hBN composites with simultaneous improve- ment in TC and flame retardancy via multiple synergistic effects shown in Scheme 1c. The multiple synergistic enhancement mechanisms of thermal conductivity and flame retardancy are also discussed in the context of morphology and char. 

(OH)2 nanoribbons. Finally, the resultant gel-like products (RGO@Ni (OH)2 hybrid) were ultrasonic-broken, filtered and washed with deio- nized water for several times in deionized water. The purified RGO@Ni (OH)2 hybrid was stored in ethanol solution with a concentration of 10 mg/mL. 

2. Experimental section


2.1. Materials


Diglycidyl ether of bisphenol-F epoxy (EP, YDF-170) was supported by KUNDO Chemical Co., Ltd. 2-ethyl-4-methylimidazole (EMI-2, 4, AR) used as cured agent was purchased from Aladdin Industrial Corporation. Nickel sulfate heptahydrate (NiSO4·7H2O), sodium hy- droxide (NaOH), ethanol, acetone with analytically reagent were pro- vided by Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. All chemicals were used without further purification. hBN sheets with lateral size range of 5–10 μm were provided by Shanghai Naiou Nano technology Co., Ltd. Graphene oxide (GO) was prepared by chemically exfoliating natural graphite based on our previous work [6]. 

2.2. Synthesis of Ni(OH)2 nanoribbons


Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon was synthesized by a simple hydrothermal process based on previous literatures [33,38], as shown in Scheme 1a. Typically, NiSO4 aqueous solution (300 mL/117.6 mmol) was firstly prepared, and following with slowly adding NaOH aqueous solution (180 mL/58.8 mmol) with vigorous stirring, to prevent flocculation. The solution was further stirred for 2 h, then transferred to five 50 mL Teflon-lined autoclaves to suffer an inclosed hydrothermal process at 120 °C for 12 h. After that, the obtained products (Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon) were filtered and washed with deionized water for several times, stored in aqueous solution with a concentration of 10 mg/mL. 

2.3. Preparation of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid


Electrostatic self-assembly was employed to prepare RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid via a further hydrothermal process (Scheme 1b). In brief, GO aqueous solution was slowly added into the Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon aqu- eous solution with the GO:Ni(OH)2 mass ratio of 1:1 under a vigorous stirring. The concentration of GO was diluted to 2 mg/mL with a suf- ficient stirring for 2 h. Then the solution was transferred to 50 mL Te- flon autoclaves, and heated to 180 °C for 12 h. During this hydrothermal process GO sheets were synchronously reduced and coated with Ni 

2.4. Fabrication of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites


In a typical procedure, the ethanol solution of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hy- brid was firstly ultrasonic-mixed with stoichiometric EP monomers solution in acetone for 1 h. Then the bulk of mixed solvent was rapidly removed using a rotary evaporator. Afterwards hBN sheets were uni- formly dispersed into the above-mentioned obtained mixture by using a planetary stirrer. The resulted EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 mixture was dried and outgassed in vacuum at 60 °C for 12 h, and following with adding 6 wt% EMI-2,4 (curing agent). Finally, the composite was cured according to a programmed-temperature of 60 °C for 2 h, 100 °C for 2 h and 150 °C for 5 h. The content of RGO or RGO@Ni(OH)2 were fixed as 2 wt% relative to EP, and hBN sheets showed a concentration variation of 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 and 40 wt% relative to composites. For comparison, EP/hBN and EP/hBN/RGO composites were fabricated using the same process. 

2.5. Characterizations


X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were carried out on a PANalytical X’Pert PRO diffractometer equipped with a Cu-Kα radiation (λ = 0.154 nm). Laser-Raman scattering analyses were executed on a LabRAM HR800 Raman spectrometer with 532 nm Nd laser. Fourier transform infrared spectra (FTIR) were recorded by using a Bruker Equinox 55 FTIR spectrometer with KBr pellet. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed on a Shimadzu-Kratos AXIS-ILTRA DLD-600 W spectrometer using an Al Kα anode. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were obtained by using Tecnai G2 20 S-TWIN TEM and FEI Nova NanoSEM450 field emission SEM with an acceleration voltage of 200 and 10 kV, respectively. Energy disperse X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) was 

Thermogravimetric analyses (TGA) were tested on a Perkin Elmer TGA 4000 equipment with a heating rate of 10 °C/min. 

The TC values of composites were measured via hot-wire method with a KEM QTM-500 Quick Thermal Conductivity Meter at room temperature based on ASTM C1113 90 standard. The combustion be- haviors of composites were analyzed based on limiting oxygen index 

(LOI), UL-94 vertical burning, and cone calorimeter (CC) measure- ments. The rectangular specimens for LOI (100 × 6.5 × 3 mm3), UL-94 (100 × 13 × 3 mm3) and CC (100 × 100 × 3 mm3) were examined on HC-2 oxygen index meter, CZF-3 horizontal vertical combustion appa- ratus, and FTT cone calorimeter, based on GB/T 2405–2009, GB/T 2408–2008, and GB/T 16172–2007, respectively. 

3. Results and discussion


3.1. Characterizations of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid


It is well-known that the main flame retardant mechanism of in- organic hydroxide is the cooling effect of its endothermic decomposi- tion reaction [39]. As shown in Fig. S1, the TGA curve of Ni(OH)2 under air atmosphere reveals the two-step thermal decomposition behavior at 

200–400 °C and 600–700 °C, respectively, corresponding to its thermal decomposition with products of water and Ni2O3 and the further oxi- dation of NiO [40,41]. The corresponding DSC pattern confirms the decomposition endothermic peaks at 263 °C (0.337 W/g) and 374 °C (0.872 W/g). Moreover, the catalytic carbonization and free radical adsorption ability of NiO nanoparticles make Ni(OH)2 have outstanding flame retardant effect, which were thus chosen to functionalized RGO in this work. 

Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon synthesized by one-step hydrothermal process, is suitable to functionalize RGO due to its more specific surface area and aspect ratio when comparing to nanoparticle, nanowire, or nanoplate. TEM image of Ni(OH)2 (Fig. 1a) confirms ribbon-like morphology with a width of 15–20 nm and a length of 1–2 μm. Such Ni(OH)2 nanoribbons can be easily adhered onto RGO’s surface by electrostatic interaction In comparison to the during a further hydrothermal process. 

Fig. 1. TEM images of (a) Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon and (b) RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid; SEM images of (c) RGO and (d) RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid; (e) EDX spectrum and (f) Ni element mapping of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid. 

transparent and smooth with few flexible wrinkles of RGO sheets re- duced by the same hydrothermal process (Fig. S2 and Fig. 1b), the morphology of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid (Fig. 1c and d) exhibits that Ni (OH)2 nanoribbons closely adhere to RGO sheets without any stacking phenomenon. The EDX spectrum and Ni element mapping (Fig. 1e and f) reveal that abundant Ni element uniformly distributes on the surface of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid, also confirming the Ni(OH)2 flame-retardant functionalized RGO. Moreover, the strong interaction between RGO and Ni(OH)2 can stand against ultrasonic treatment more than 10 min without shedding nanoribbons observed during TEM test. 

The crystal structures of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid were confirmed by powder XRD technique. As shown in Fig. 2a, when comparing to nat- ural graphite [6], the (0 0 2) diffraction peak of graphitic lattice shifts to 2θ = 11.8° with a d-spacing of 0.75 nm after oxidation, because of the intercalation of oxygen-containing groups [42]. The reduction by hy- drothermal process can eliminate most of oxygen-containing groups in GO, and results in the shift of the (0 0 2) peak to 2θ = 23.6° with a broad band form. Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon displays six strong diffraction peaks at 2θ = 12.9°, 17.4°, 23.0°, 30.3°, 40.4° and 45.6° in its XRD diffraction pattern, respectively, corresponding to the (0 0 2), (1 0 2), (2 0 1), (2 0 3), (0 1 4), (1 0 1) and (4 0 0) lattice planes of monoclinic α- Ni(OH)2 based on JCPDF No. 41-1424 [43,44]. All of diffraction peaks of α-Ni(OH)2 are observed on the XRD diffractogram of RGO@Ni(OH)2 at same location, further demonstrating that Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon was coated onto the surface of RGO successfully. Meanwhile, the complete disappearance of (0 0 2) diffraction peak in RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid means the effective suppression for the restacking of RGO sheets by coating Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon. 

Fig. 2b exhibits the Raman spectra of Ni(OH)2, GO, RGO and RGO@ Ni(OH)2 hybrid. Two characteristic peaks at ~1334 (D band) and 1573 cm−1 (G band) of graphitic structure, corresponding to the A1g breathing mode of sp3 carbon in disorder/defect domains, and the E2g- vibration mode of sp2 carbon in graphitic lattice domains [45], are observed in all graphene derivatives. In contrast to GO and RGO, D and G bands show a tiny red-shift in RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid due to the charge transfer between RGO and Ni(OH)2. The new peaks around 450, 480 and 1004 cm−1, belonging to Ni(OH)2, are found in the spectrum of 

RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid, re-confirming the successful Ni(OH)2 flame-re- tardant functionalization for RGO. Additionally, the intensity ratio of D and G band (ID/IG) presents a little change after reduction or functio- nalization, which means that little lattice damage happened during the hydrothermal process. 

In this work, only electrostatic interaction is hard to keep its structural integrity after suffering ultrasonic treatment as described in TEM section. For this reason, FTIR and XPS techniques were employed to verify the interaction between RGO and Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon in RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid. The new absorption peaks at 702 and 3602 cm−1 belonging to the Ni-O band and hydroxyl stretching vibra- tion of Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon are found in RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid FTIR spectra (Fig. 2c). The strong hydrogen-bond interaction between hy- droxide and carboxyl of GO can be proved according to the obvious shift of carboxyl peak shifts to 1654 cm−1 when comparing to GO (1734 cm−1). Furthermore, a significant proof of the sharp peak at 1101 cm−1, attributing to C–O–Ni bond, proves the presence of cova- lent linking in our hybrid. Therefore, both hydrogen-bond interaction and covalent linking make Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon to adhere on the sur- face of RGO closely. 

Fig. 2d-e present the XPS spectra of Ni(OH)2, RGO and RGO@Ni (OH)2 hybrid, to further confirm the covalent linking. The characteristic peaks of Ni(OH)2 and RGO are observed on RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid spectrum. In contrast, the reducing C/O atomic ratio of hybrid is as- cribed to the introducing O element by Ni(OH)2 coating. The high-re- solution spectrum at Ni 2p region (inset in Fig. 2d) reveals two main spin-orbital splitting peaks of Ni 2p1/2 and Ni 2p3/2 at 874.4 and 856.6 eV with a spin-energy separation of 17.8 eV, which is the char- acteristic of α-Ni(OH)2 [46]. The C 1s core-level XPS spectra of RGO and RGO@Ni(OH)2 (Fig. 2e) show six fitting peaks at same location, which can be attributed to sp3 C (284.5 eV), sp2 C (285.0 eV), C-OH (285.6 eV), C–O–C (286.9 eV), C]O (287.5 eV) and C(O)OH (289.0 eV), respectively, based on the our previous report [47]. In contrast, RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid exhibits a more intensive C-OH fitting peak at 285.6 eV because of the presence of hydrogen-bond interaction. A noticeable difference induced by functionalization can be found in O 1s region. As shown in Fig. 2f, the high-resolution O 1s spectrum of 

Fig. 2. (a) XRD diffractograms, and (b) Raman, (c) FTIR, (d) XPS spectra of GO, RGO, Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid; High-resolution XPS spectra of RGO and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid at (e) C 1s and (f) O 1s regions. 

RGO show two fitting peaks at 531.9 and 533.7 eV, respectively, be- longing to the double and single bonds linking with graphitic lattice. For RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid, the C-O-Ni fitting peak at 535.8 eV, proving the presence of covalent linking, is observed in its O 1s region. The C- OH fitting peak shifts to low-energy region about 0.7 eV by coating Ni (OH)2 nanoribbon. 

TGA is a powerful tool to explore the functionalization and estimate flame-retardant efficiency of graphene derivatives. As presented in Fig. 3, GO exhibits a continuous thermal decomposition before 150 °C with ~12% weight loss and a sharp down stage between 200 and 300 °C with ~30% weight loss, corresponding to its absorbed water and non- stable oxygen-containing groups, respectively [48]. After removing the most oxygenated functional groups during hydrothermal reduction 

(< 400 °C) is suppressed and ~7% continuous weight loss during this stage is associated with residual oxygenated groups. However, the ex- cessive existence of sp2 carbon due to relatively weak reduction results in the unstable carbonaceous structure in RGO with poor thermal sta- bility under high temperature. During TGA testing, the RGO shows a rapid weight loss corresponding to the pyrolysis of unstable carbonac- eous structure after 500 °C [8]. By comparison, RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid two thermal decomposition stages at 200–400 °C and exhibits 500–600 °C, respectively, which are almost consistent with the thermal decomposition process of Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon describing in above section (Fig. S1). In view of the thermal decomposition behaviors of RGO and Ni(OH)2, the two decomposition stages of hybrid can be as- cribed to the superposition of the decomposition of Ni(OH)2 and RGO, where Ni2O3 and NiO nanoparticles are produced in the RGO hybrid during the two stages, respectively. Additionally, Ni nanoparticles may be obtained due to the weak reducing ability of graphene for Ni(OH)2 nanoribbons under high temperature [49]. Moreover, the appearance of a plateau corresponding to 42.5 wt% residues in hybrid’s TGA curve beyond 700 °C, comparing to the continuous weight loss of RGO, means that carbonaceous structure of RGO at high-temperature was effectively reinforced by adherent Ni(OH)2 nanoribbons. Therefore, the decom- posed products (NiO and Ni nanoparticles), as well as reinforced car- bonaceous structure of RGO would play an important role when as a flame retardant additive for polymers. 

3.2. Morphology and structure of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites


As mentioned above, the multiple flame retardant mechanisms in- cluding cooling effect, catalytic carbonization and free radical absorp- tion of Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon and its decomposition products, can ef- fectively increase the flame retardant efficiency of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid. On the other hand, the hydrogen-bond interaction between Ni (OH)2 and polar functional groups in polymers can also improve the interfacial interaction between RGO and matrix [31]. As exhibited in Fig. 4a, RGO sheets show a very poor dispersion in EP matrix and weak interfacial interaction with remarkable gaps (red circle in Fig. 4a) be- tween RGO and matrix. After functionalization with Ni(OH)2 nanor- ibbon, the presence of strong hydrogen-bond interaction between Ni (OH)2 and imidazole groups in EP matrix leads to the effective sup- pression for the restacking of RGO, resulting in that no RGO aggrega- tions were found on the fracture surface of EP/RGO@Ni(OH)2. More- over, the relatively ductile fracture of EP/RGO@Ni(OH)2 (see Fig. 4b) with rough surface and plenty of cracks also confirms the significant improvement in the dispersion and interfacial interaction of RGO in the matrix. 

In this work, 2D hBN sheets with a mean lateral size of 4.37 ± 1.68 μm and thickness of 80 ± 21 nm (Fig. S3) are chosen as the conductive filler due to its high aspect ratio, electric insulation, ultrahigh chemical and thermal resistance. The multiple synergistic effects between hBN and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid are used to enhance the TC and flame retardancy of EP-based composites, which are im- portantly impacted by the dispersion, distribution, and interfacial 

interaction of fillers. In low magnification SEM images (Fig. S4, Fig. 4c and e), the fracture surfaces of all composites reveal the relatively uniform distribution of hBN without obvious defects or holes in whole region. However, due to gravity action, 2D hBN micro-sheets tend to stack along in-plane during curing process in EP/hBN composites, especially for the composites with high filler loading (20 and 40 wt%, Figs. 4c and S4), which severely weakens the final properties in through-plane [50]. After further incorporating RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid in EP/hBN composites, such stacking behavior is effectively suppressed by increasing the viscosity of curing system, which is profound for the improvement in through-plane TC. Moreover, the suppression effect can be further confirmed by XRD technique due to the sharp difference between the diffracted intensity of (0 0 2) and (1 0 0) lattice plane of hBN (Fig. S5) [51]. In addition, the high magnification SEM images (red arrows in Fig. 4d and red circles in Fig. S6) reveal that hBN sheets exhibit stacked aggregation distribution in EP/hBN composites, with noticeable gaps are observed in the hBN aggregations. In contrast, the stacking aggregation behavior of hBN sheets can be effectively re- strained when adding RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid in composites, where hBN sheets (red arrows in Figs. 4f and S6) are almost monodisperse in ma- trix. Moreover, the existing RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid between adjacent hBN sheets can also acts as a bridge linking hBN sheets, resulting in the formation of continuous thermal conductive network. 

3.3. Thermal conductivity of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites


The values of TC for EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites were measured by steady-state hot-wire method, and the results are shown in Fig. 5a. Neat EP shows a relatively low TC of 0.21 W/mK due to the lack of conductive path for phonon or electron. Incorporating a large number of hBN sheets into EP matrix can induce the formation of in- organic filler network, which allows phonons (heat carrier) to transmit the EP matrix quickly, resulting in the obvious improvement in TC property of EP/hBN composites. For example, the TC enhancement (TCE, comparing to neat EP) of composites at 20, 30 and 40 wt% hBN are 262, 449, 587%, respectively. Even so, the synergistic effect be- tween 2D graphene and hBN is expected to further enhance the values of TC as our previous reports [6,37]. As a result, when adding 2 wt% RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid into EP/hBN composites, the TC values show an interesting change as function of hBN loading, i.e., showing a negligible improvement below 20 wt% loading compared to the corresponding EP/hBN, but an ever-increasing synergistic enhancement beyond 20 wt % loading, due to the increasing inter-particle interactions. Defining (Kc1 − Kc0)/Kc0 as the strength of the synergistic effect, where Kc1 and Kc0 are the TC of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 and EP/hBN, respectively. As presented in Fig. 5a, the synergistic effect strength is below 5% at 5, 10 

Fig. 3. TGA curves of GO, RGO, Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hy- brid under nitrogen atmosphere. 

Fig. 5. (a) Thermal conductivity of EP/hBN and EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites as a function of hBN content; (b) the model fitting curves (lines) to the corresponding experimental data (dots); the proposed thermal conductive models for (c) EP/hBN or EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 with low hBN loading, (d) EP/hBN and (e) EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 with high hBN loading. 

and 15 wt% hBN loading, while the values are 13.9, 29.4 and 39.4% when increasing the filler loading to 20, 30 and 40 wt%, respectively, which is consistent with previous work [52]. 

Our previous works revealed that the decreasing interfacial thermal resistance (Rb) induced by adding flame-retardant functionalized gra- phene is one of main reason for the improving TC of EP/Al2O3 and EP/ silver nanowires composites [6,37]. Herein, effective medium approx- imation (EMA) theory [53] is also employed to calculate change of Rb between hBN sheets and EP matrix induced by incorporating RGO@Ni (OH)2 hybrid. For homogeneous phase system containing 2D fillers, Nan et al. [54] developed a universal formula based EMA model as following: 

where , Kc, Km and Kp are the TC of composites, matrix and fillers, respectively. f is volume fraction. Lii is geometrical is the equivalent TC factor dependent on the shape of particles. along symmetric axis of the composite unit cell. p and a is the reciprocal 

of aspect ratio and thickness of filler, respectively. In EP/hBN and EP/ hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites, hBN sheets with aspect ratio of ~300 (Fig. S3) and TC of 360 W/mK were used as TC filler, for simplicity, the other parts (EP or EP/RGO@Ni(OH)2) of the composites were regarded as matrix with Km of 0.210 and 0.231 W/mK, respectively. Fitting the experimental data based on Eqs. (1)–(5), the results are shown in Fig. 5b. It should be pointed out that EMA model is only suitable to the system with low filler loading due to the assumption of no particle interaction and no clustering. Therefore, only the data below 30 wt% hBN loading are well-fitted in this work. The fitting results demonstrate that the similar Rb in EP/hBN (10.6 × 10−8 m2K/W) and EP/hBN/ RGO@Ni(OH)2 (9.7 × 10−8 m2K/W) composites, indicating that the introducing RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid shows a very weak effect on the Rb at low filler loading. 

Synergetic enhancement effects in TC by multiple fillers are well- known in previous reports, such as improving dispersion and interfacial interaction, bridging effect and so on [23,55]. Based on the morphology analysis and the TC data of composites, the synergetic effect on the TC of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 can be discussed as two parts. For the composites with low hBN loading, as shown in Fig. 5c, the “dilute” hBN sheets in matrix is hard to be affected by adding small amount RGO@Ni (OH)2 hybrid because of the weak interaction between the two fillers. Although the dispersion of hBN sheets is improved to some extend, the discontinuous thermal conductive paths still induce the low TC in EP/ hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2. Concerning high loading composites, the stacking and aggregation behaviors of hBN sheets and the existing gaps between adjacent hBN sheets result in the relatively low TC in though-plane direction of EP/hBN (Fig. 5d). Such behaviors can be effectively sup- pressed by further adding RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid into EP/hBN (high filler loading) due to the increasing the viscosity of composite slurry as 

described above (Fig. 5e). Combining with the bridging connection of graphene, a continuous and efficient thermal conductive network can be formed in EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2, which results in the strong sy- nergetic enhancement effect on TC of the composites at high hBN loading. 

3.4. Thermal stability and flame retardancy of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2


3.4. Thermal stability and flame retardancy of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites 

The significant thermal (oxidative) stability of EP-based composites, to reveal the thermal decomposition and combustion behaviors, is given in Fig. 6. Neat EP shows one-stage thermal degradation corresponding to the pyrolysis of epoxy chains (400–500 °C) in nitrogen atmosphere, and the other mass-loss stage (500–700 °C) belonging to the oxidation of chars when existing oxygen during thermal decomposition [29,47]. In contrast to neat EP, EP/hBN exhibits a lower onset thermal decom- position temperature (Tonset) due to the presence of a mass of high thermal conductive hBN sheets, which means the easy and quick heat absorption of composites. However, the “tortuous path” effect of 2D hBN sheets, which hinders the transfer of volatile products [56], results in the obvious reduction in mass loss rate, and the large improvement of char yield. Moreover, the char’s pyrolysis is also delayed drastically, which means the obviously increasing oxidation resistance of chars. When incorporating 2 wt% RGO or RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid into EP or EP/hBN composite, all the resulted composites demonstrates a de- creasing Tonset due to the thermally nonstable RGO and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid (Fig. 3). The incorporated RGO composites with poor dispersion and interfacial interaction present increasing mass loss rate comparing to their matrix (EP or EP/hBN). By comparison, the multiple effects of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid including endothermic decomposition of Ni 

(OH)2 nanoribbon, catalytic carbonization and free radical adsorption of NiO/Ni nanoparticles, as well as the well-disperse graphene with strong interfacial interaction with EP matrix, result in the improvement of their thermal decomposition behavior in terms of decreasing mass loss rate, improving char yield and increasing chars’ oxidation re- sistance. Combining with the “tortuous path” effect of hBN sheets, a more effective protective barrier layer containing more organic car- bides, graphene and hBN sheets can be formed in EP/hBN/RGO@Ni (OH)2 composite during thermal degradation, which leads to the re- markable improvement in its thermal (oxidative) stability. 

Cone calorimeter (CC), limit oxygen index (LOI) and UL-94 vertical burning tests were employed to detect the synergistic resistance effect of hBN and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid on the flammability of EP in bench- scale tests under real-world fire conditions [57]. Fig. 7 gives the rela- tion curves of heat release rate (HRR), total heat release (THR), total smoke production (TSP) and mass loss versus time, and their corre- sponding combustion parameters are listed in Table 1. Neat EP de- monstrates high flammable features of easy ignition, rapid burning, high heat release and dense smoke during continuous heat radiation of CC test, with low time to ignition (TTI) of 67s, high peak heat release rate (PHRR) of 1137.6 kW/m2, THR of 81.6 MJ/m2 and TSP of 62.4 m2. Moreover, EP sample with low LOI value of 25.0 vol% can burn con- tinuously with a plenty of drippings during UL-94 vertical burning test (NR). RGO or RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid used as flame retardant additives in this work can decrease the combustibility of EP at a certain extent. In contrast, the multiple flame retardant effects of the hybrid, as well as its well dispersion and interfacial interaction in matrix, lead to a better flame retardance of EP/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composite. The corresponding HRR, THR and TSP values fall by 31.6%, 8.6% and 7.9% comparing to neat EP, respectively. Moreover, the composite also passed the UL-94V- 

Fig. 7. (a) Heat release rate, (b) total heat release, (c) total smoke production rate and (d) mass loss versus time curves of neat EP and its composites with 20 wt% hBN and 2 wt% graphene. 

Table 1 Combustion data of neat EP and its composites. 

2 testing with an increased LOI value of 26.6 vol%. For the PTCs in this


2 testing with an increased LOI value of 26.6 vol%. For the PTCs in this work, adding hBN sheets (20 wt%) into EP matrix can induce the ef- fective improvement in its flammability including PHRR (845.3 kW/ m2), THR (68.7 MJ/m2) and TSP (46.8 m2), corresponding to the re- duction of 25.7%, 15.8% and 25.0%, respectively. Meanwhile, the disappearance of char combustion exothermic peak at 150–200 s in HRR curve (Fig. 7a) comparing to neat EP indicates the increased oxi- dation resistance of chars in EP/hBN, which is agreed with the TGA analysis. However, the high TC and the relative low melt viscosity re- sults in the decreasing TTI for EP/hBN (45 s), which means the ease of ignition during a fire hazard [47]. Besides, EP/hBN shows some im- provement in LOI to 27.2 vol%, but still can’t pass UL-94 testing. As synergistic fillers, RGO and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrids are expected to further improve the flame retardancy of EP/hBN in this work. The re- sults reveal that RGO shows a very low synergistic flame retardant ef- fect due to its low catalytic carbonization ability, poor dispersion and weak interfacial interaction in EP/hBN matrix. By comparison, coating Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon onto RGO sheets can effectively improve their interfacial compatibility with EP matrix (Fig. 4b), but also endows their with multiple flame retardant effects. As expected, the incorporation of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid into EP/hBN can further decrease the PHRR, THR and TSP to 756.8 kW/m2, 54.0 MJ/m2 and 35.6 m2, respectively, corresponding to a reduction of 33.5%, 33.8% and 43.0% comparing to neat EP, and a reduction of 10.5%, 21.4% and 23.9% comparing to EP/ hBN. More importantly, the TTI value exhibits a dramatic improvement in EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 (103 s) comparing to neat EP (67 s) and EP/ hBN (45 s), which is ascribed to the drastic increase of melt viscosity according to our previous reports [37,47]. Combing with the remark- able improvement in LOI value (29.2 vol%) and burning rate (V-1, self- quenching and no dripping) of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2, it can be con- cluded that an significant synergistic enhancement in flame retardancy and smoke suppression between RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid and hBN occurs in their EP-based composites, which would be discussed in the fol- lowing section. In addition, the fire growth rate index (FIGRA) calcu- lated from the ratio of PHRR and time to PHRR [58], also reveals a considerable reduction of flammability in EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 by comparing with EP and EP/hBN (Table 1), which suggests that the flashover time of fire would be delayed in a real fire hazard. 

To reveal the possible synergistic flame retardant mechanism be- tween hBN sheets and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid for their EP-based com- posites, the morphology and components of chars after CC test were analyzed in detail. The mass loss curves during CC tests (Fig. 7d) reveals that neat EP loss more than its initial a mass of 90% after the com- bustion. Adding hBN sheets into EP matrix can signally improve the char yield with an intact but pulverulent white char layer (Fig. S7). A porous structure morphology (Fig. 8a), which is regarded as the transmission channels for the volatile products, oxygen and heat [59], is observed in the inner of char. Its high-magnification SEM image (Fig. 8b) and EDX spectrum (Fig. 8c) reveal that the char is composed of the stacking hBN sheets and few amorphous carbon. Based on these 

results, the relatively low flame retardancy of EP/hBN is thus attributed to the loose and porous char structure induced by the lack of organic sticking substance. For EP/hBN/RGO, introducing RGO can further improve the char yield. Although the integrity of char layer are some- what broken, its block-like structure suggests that the quality of char layer is improved somewhat by RGO (Fig. S7). The char’s inner mor- phology (Fig. 8d) also reveals the porous structure but with a de- creasing pore size comparing to that of EP/hBN. Some organic carbide as binders can be confirmed by the high-resolution morphology and component analyses of char (Fig. 8e and f). However, the relatively low amount of organic carbide does not yet improve the char’s strength effectively, so as to collapse as clumps. By contrast, EP/hBN/RGO@Ni (OH)2 exhibits a more excellent char layer after combustion, including the char’s yield and integrality (Fig. S7). The inner porous structure of its char layer shows a further decreasing pore size and compacted skeletons with lots of organic carbide as binder (Fig. 8g–i), which suggests the more effective barrier effect during its burning, further resulting in the obvious improvement of flame retardancy of EP/hBN/ RGO@Ni(OH)2. Moreover, some nanoparticles with a size of 100–200 nm are found in its high-resolution SEM image (inset in Fig. 8h), which are confirmed to be NiO/Ni nanoparticles by the EDX spectrum (Fig. 8i). The formation of these nanoparticles during burning proves the aforementioned multiple flame retardant effects of RGO@Ni (OH)2. 

The synergistic flame retardant mechanism between hBN sheets and RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid in EP matrix is shown in Scheme 2, according to the above-mentioned analysis. Firstly, the multiple flame retardant ef- fects of RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid including endothermic effect (thermal decomposition of Ni(OH)2) [60], catalytic carbonization and free ra- dical adsorption ability (NiO/Ni nanoparticles products) [61], as well as the barrier effect of RGO [62], can reduce the burning temperature, dilute the concentration of oxygen and flammable gases, and increase the yield of organic chars during combustion of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni (OH)2. Secondly, hBN sheets, combining with the forming organic chars act as “tortuous path” effect to prevent the transfer of heat, oxygen and volatile products [56]. Finally, the improving dispersion and interfacial interaction of RGO and hBN in matrix by coating Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon are able to enhance the above-mentioned flame retardant effects. Therefore, the main condensed phase strategy, i.e., the compact and robust protective char layer formed by catalytic carbonization of RGO@ Ni(OH)2 hybrid and the template effect of hBN sheets, as well as the assistant gas phase strategy including dilution effect and free radical adsorption, results in the obvious improvement in flame retardancy of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composite. 

4. Conclusions


In summary, multiple synergistic effects of hBN and few graphene- hybrid were employed to improve the TC and flame retardancy of PTCs, simultaneously. Firstly, Ni(OH)2 nanoribbon was synthesized by a simple, high-efficiency and eco-friendly hydrothermal process, which was used to flame-retardant functionalize RGO for the first time through electrostatic-assembly by a further hydrothermal process. The resulted flame retardant functionalized graphene (RGO@Ni(OH)2 hy- brid) was then incorporated into EP/hBN composites toward address the problems of low TC and high fire hazard of PTCs. Because of the strong hydrogen-bond interaction between Ni(OH)2 and polymer ma- trix, the RGO@Ni(OH)2 hybrid showed a good dispersion and inter- facial adhesion in EP matrix, which further suppress the stacking ag- loading. As a gregation behavior of hBN sheets at high filler consequence, combining to the bridging effect of graphene between the adjacent hBN sheets, the TC of EP/hBN/RGO@Ni(OH)2 composites presented a considerable enhancement when comparing to EP/hBN and neat EP after 20 wt% hBN loading. Moreover, the ternary composite with only 2 wt% RGO@Ni(OH)2 also exhibited a high fire resistance with a high LOI value of 29.2% and V-1 burning rate. The significant 

Fig. 8. SEM images of the residues after cone test with different magnification and EDX spectra of (a–c) EP/hBN, (d–f) EP/hBN/RGO and (g–i) EP/hBN/RGO@Ni (OH)2 composites. 

flame retardant parameters of HRR, THR and TSP showed a drastic reduction of 33.5%, 33.8% and 43.0% comparing to neat EP. The chars analysis revealed that the multiple flame retardant effects of RGO@Ni (OH)2 hybrid, including dilution/cooling effect, free radical adsorption, 

catalytic carbonization and barrier effect, as well as the “tortuous path” effect of hBN sheets contributed to the improvement of flame re- tardancy. 

The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support for this work by the National Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 51273073 and 51673076), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Grant No. 2018M642781) and the analytical and testing assistance from the Analysis and Testing Center of HUST. 

Scheme 2. Schematic illustration of (a) the flame-retardation effects of RGO@ Ni(OH)2 in EP matrix, and the flame retardation mechanism of (b) EP/hBN/ RGO@Ni(OH)2. 

