Vertical particle alignment of boron nitride and silicon carbide binary ﬁller system for thermal conductivity enhancement 

1 December 2015


Thermally conductive BN/SiC binary ﬁller and epoxy composite materials were fabricated via magnetic alignment. The magnetic iron oxide particles on the surface of the ﬁller allowed particle re-orientation under the external magnetic ﬁeld. Owing to its anisotropy, the vertically aligned BN composite had a high thermal conductivity and generated a vertical heat ﬂow path. When the SiC nanoparticles were added to the binary ﬁller, they hindered BN-particle aggregation and led to the formation of a three- dimensional heat conduction path, thereby resulting in increased thermal conductivity. The maximum thermal conductivity (5.77 W/mK) was obtained with an addition of SiC ﬁller, and was 3.08-fold and 1.1- fold higher than that of randomly mixed BN and vertically aligned BN composites, respectively. The additional SiCeFe3O4 particles resulted in signiﬁcant aggregation of the ﬁller, which in turn led to a decrease in the thermal conductivity. The measured storage modulus of the BNeFe3O4/SiC binary ﬁller composite was also higher than those of the BNeFe3O4 and BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 composites, owing to the aggregation of particles. 

1. Introduction


The continuous down-scaling of devices and increase in power densities have resulted in increased hot-spot temperatures [1]. The reliability of an electronic device exhibits an exponential depen- dence on the operating temperature of the junction; therefore, a small difference in the temperature can result in a two-fold reduction in the lifespan of the device. To ensure that the device functions properly, the unwanted heat must be removed as quickly and effectively as possible in order to maintain the operating temperature. As such, thermal management is essential to the operation of next-generation electronics [2,3]. 

Thermally conductive composite materials were fabricated us- ing epoxy resin that is easily processed, has a high adhesive strength, and is electrically insulating, which is essential to pre- venting electrical leakage and shortage of packaging materials [4]. Unfortunately, epoxy resin has a low thermal conductivity (~0.2 W/ mK) and is therefore incapable of removing unwanted heat from the hot spot [5]. Several studies aimed at improving this conduc- tivity have focused on the use of solid ﬁller materials such as 

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compscitech.2015.12.004 0266-3538/© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. 

carbonaceous materials (carbon nanotubes, graphene), metals (copper, aluminum), and ceramics (AlN, BN, Al2O3, SiC) that have high thermal conductivities [6e8]. Among them, carbonaceous and metallic materials have excellent electrical conductivity, which prevents the fabrication of highly thermally conductive composites that have high concentrations of ﬁller. Therefore, highly thermally conductive and electrically insulating ceramic materials have been widely used as ﬁllers in recently fabricated thermally conductive composites [9]. 

Traditionally, various techniques such as particle surface modi- ﬁcation, matrix functionalization, binary ﬁller systems, etc. have been used to improve the thermal conductivity of the resins [10e12]. These techniques improved the ﬁllerematrix interaction, and revealed optimum ﬁller compositions, with various sizes and shapes of ﬁller, that should maximize the thermal conductivity. However, most of these techniques were based on conventional simple mechanical mixing and composite manufacturing methods such as extrusion and solvent casting. These random mixing methods resulted in signiﬁcantly lower performance than those reported in previous studies [13]. Moreover, high thermal con- ductivity via these conventional composite fabrication methods can only be attained by using extremely high ﬁller loading that is typically >50 vol%. These high levels of ﬁller loading result, how- ever, in signiﬁcant degradation of the mechanical properties of the 

polymer because hard-type ﬁller materials, such as ceramic parti- cles, act as defects in the polymer matrix. High volume fractions of the ﬁller also lead to signiﬁcant increases in the viscosity of the composite, but reduced processability of the matrix [14]. As such, a novel approach that allows the use of small amounts of ﬁller is essential to achieving high thermal conductivities and acceptable mechanical properties. 

method for various ﬁelds such as biology, microﬂuidic, electronics, and so on. Studies have been conducted on thermal conductivity enhancement via ﬁller alignment. For example, Nahm et al. fabri- cated an electric-ﬁeld-induced aligned alumina composite via induced dipoleedipole interactions, between electrically non- conductive ﬁllers that were unidirectionally assembled under an external electric ﬁeld [15]. However, owing to the weak driving force for particle motion, only a small amount of ﬁller was used. This resulted in a lower thermal conductivity than that of a randomly mixed composite that had high ﬁller concentration. Hone et al. evaluated the thermal and electrical transport properties of a magnetically aligned single wall carbon nanotube ﬁlm [16]. How- ever, the above-mentioned alignment of carbonaceous materials cannot be applied to thermally conductive materials because the electrical conductivity, which should be minimized, increased signiﬁcantly after ﬁller alignment. Electrically insulating materials and proper alignment of particles are therefore critical to achieving high thermal conductivity that is suitable for electronic devices. 

Magnetic ﬁeld alignment can be applied without causing dam- age to the composites and has the potential to reduce commercial manufacturing costs. As such, in this study, magnetic ﬁeld align- ment was used to modulate the direction of a thermally conductive ﬁller. Micron-sized boron nitride (BN) was used as the ﬁller owing to its excellent thermal conductivity and anisotropic properties. BN has an in-plane thermal conductivity of 600 W/mK, which is 20 times higher than the corresponding through-plane thermal con- ductivity [17]. Therefore, vertically aligned BN enhanced the through-plane thermal conductivity of the composite. The mag- netic response of the BN was induced by introducing paramagnetic iron oxide (Fe3O4) to the BN surface. In our previous study, thermal conductive ﬁllers formed aggregates and generated column-like shapes of particles under an external magnetic ﬁeld [18]. At low ﬁller concentration, the generated ﬁller column acts as an excellent heat ﬂow channel in the vertical direction. However, at high ﬁller concentrations, the inhomogeneously dispersed ﬁller column re- duces the thermal conductivity. Moreover, the one-dimensionally generated heat ﬂow channel leads to an inevitable decrease in the in-plane thermal conductivity. Controlling the aggregation of magnetic particles is crucial to generating homogeneous heat transfer and realizing a reliable composite fabrication process. As such, nano-sized SiC particles were added to a binary ﬁller in order to increase the heat transfer. The small amount of SiC nanoparticles generated a thermally conducting bridge between the vertically aligned BN platelets, thereby resulting in two-dimensional ther- mally conducting path. 

2. Experimental


2.1. Synthesis of Fe3O4-decorated BN and SiC


The surface treatment of BN was performed by using a sodium hydroxide solution. BN particles have only a few surface functional groups and exhibit strong chemical resistance. Therefore, a surface treatment was necessary in order to enable chemical or physical bonding of the particles. The hydroxide functional groups were attached to the surface of the BN particles by suspending the par- ticles in a 5 M NaOH solution at 120 (cid:1)C for 48 h. After the treatment 

with the base solution, the particles were rinsed with deionized (DI) water and ﬁltered repeatedly in order to restore the pH from basic to neutral. The BN hydroxide (BNeOH) particles were then placed in a furnace at 80 (cid:1)C for 5 h, allowed to cool to room tem- perature, and then stored in desiccators. 

4 h at 90 (cid:1)C. The products were then washed with DI water, ﬁltered


Iron oxide nanoparticles were then synthesized on the surfaces of the BN and SiC, by hydrolysis of an aqueous solution. This syn- thesis was performed by ﬁrst dissolving 1.5 g of PVP in 100 mL of water and then adding 0.5 g of BN and SiC powder under magnetic stirring, in order to obtain a homogeneous aqueous dispersion. After a few hours, FeCl3$6H2O was added to the particle dispersion and then stirred at 90 (cid:1)C overnight. A portion (20 mL) of hydrazine hydrate solution was added to the above solution and stirred for 4 h at 90 (cid:1)C. The products were then washed with DI water, ﬁltered repeatedly, and vacuum-dried at 80 (cid:1)C for 5 h in order to remove the solvent. 

2.2. Fabrication of the aligned BN-SiC/epoxy composites


The equivalent weight ratio of bisphenol-A to 4.4’-diamino diphenylmethane (DDM) used in this study, was 1:0.4. A portion (3.184 g) of DDM was placed in a four-neck round ﬂask equipped with a reﬂux condenser and preheated to 120 (cid:1)C; 30 g of the bisphenol-A resin was added to the DDM and the mixture was heated in an oil bath at 120 (cid:1)C for 15 min under a N2 atmosphere. This mixture was then placed in a vacuum oven for 30 min at room temperature, in order to remove the bubbles. 

Samples containing 10, 20, 30, and 40 vol% of BN and BNeFe3O4, as thermally conducting particles, were prepared. Moreover, SiC and SiCeFe3O4 particles were added to the BNeFe3O4/epoxy mixture in order to fabricate hybrid ﬁllers with various concen- trations of SiC. Each volume ratio of epoxy and ﬁller was homo- geneously mixed by mechanical stirring that was performed at 80 (cid:1)C in order to reduce viscosity. The mixture was poured into a PTFE mold that was sandwiched between two strong magnets. This mixture was placed in a convection oven at 80 (cid:1)C for 30 min and cured at 120 (cid:1)C for 3 h. The simple ﬂow chart was shown in Scheme 1. 

2.3. Characterization


X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed on a VGMicrotech, ESCA2000 system using a spectrometer equip- ped with an MgKa X-ray source (1253.6 eV) and a hemispherical analyzer. Constant Gaussian peak widths were used during curve ﬁtting of the resulting spectra. An X-ray diffractometer (XRD, New D8-Advance, Bruker-AXS) using CuKa1 radiation (0.154056 nm) was (cid:3)1 and a 2q range of used to collect XRD patterns at a scan rate of 1(cid:1)s 5e70(cid:1). Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) (Sigma, Carl Zeiss, Oberkochen, Germany) was used to examine cross-sections of the ﬁlm components and the particle morphology before and after iron oxide deposition. In order to avoid charge accumulation, the samples were sputtered with a thin layer of platinum prior to the FE-SEM observations. Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) was performed using an FE-SEM equipped with an EDS detector. In addition, the thermal diffusivity d (in units of (cid:3)1) of disk samples was measured at room temperature via mm2 s the laser ﬂash method (LFA) (Nanoﬂash LFA 447 System, Netzsch Instruments Co., Selb, Bavaria, Germany). The speciﬁc heat C (in (cid:3)1) of these samples was measured at room tem- units of J g perature via differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) (DSC-7 system, PerkineElmer Inc., Waltham, Massachusetts, USA); the corre- (cid:3)3) was measured by sponding bulk density rcomp (in units of g cm using the water displacement method. The thermal conductivity Ф (cid:3)1) was calculated as the product of the (in units of W m 

density, speciﬁc heat capacity, and thermal diffusivity. To study the mechanical properties of the composite materials, mechanical analysis (DMA; Triton Instrument, Triton DMTA) was used. The storage modulus of the solid ﬁlms were measured at a frequency of 1 Hz. The temperature range was (cid:3)100 (cid:1)C to 150 (cid:1)C, and the cooling and heating rate were 10 (cid:1)C/min. 

3. Results and discussion


The surfaces of the synthesized BNeFe3O4 and SiCeFe3O4 hybrid ﬁller were analyzed via XPS; the results are shown in Fig. 1. As the survey scan shows, pristine BN and SiC were composed mainly of B and N, and Si and C, with a small amount of O, respectively. The basal plane of BN does not contain surface functional groups, and the atomic ratio of B to N is 1:1. However, functional groups such as hydroxyl and amino groups are attached to the edge planes of the platelets. The weak O 1s peak obtained for the pristine BN is attributed to these groups [19]. Moreover, only three elements, C, Si, and O, occur in the XPS survey spectrum of the SiC. The peak corresponding to the oxygen atoms results from the oxidized sili- con dioxide layer at the surface [20]. The intensity of the peak in- creases signiﬁcantly with the deposition of iron oxide. In fact, the peaks that appear at ~53 eV and 710 eV, are attributed to Fe atoms. These results indicate that oxidized iron-based material is attached 

Fig. 2. XRD pattern of pristine BN and SiC, iron-oxide-coated BN and SiC, and Fe3O4 particles. 

The structure of the attached material was determined via XRD examination of the pristine and iron-oxide-coated BN and SiC (Fig. 2). Five peaks are observed for the pristine BN; ﬁve occur at 2q values of 26.81(cid:1), 41.63(cid:1), 43.91(cid:1), 50.20(cid:1), and 55.19(cid:1), which corre- spond to the (002), (100), (101), (102), and (004) reﬂections, respectively, and are associated with hexagonal BN (JCPDS card no. 34e042) [21]. And, six peaks occur in the spectrum corresponding to the SiC. These occur at 2q values of 34.1(cid:1), 35.5(cid:1), 38.2(cid:1), 41.4(cid:1), 45.3(cid:1) and 59.9(cid:1), which correspond to the (101), (102), (103), (104), (105) and (110) reﬂections, respectively [22]. That are associated with the a-SiC phase (JCPDS card no. 29e1128, a ¼ 4.3589a) which has su- perior thermal conductivity among SiC polytypes. In addition, ﬁve new peaks emerge with the introduction of magnetic particles. These occur at 2q values of 30.22(cid:1), 35.64(cid:1), 43.32(cid:1), 53.69(cid:1), 57.27(cid:1), and 62.81(cid:1), which correspond to the respective (200), (311), (400), (422), (511), and (440) reﬂections that are characteristic of Fe3O4 (JCPDS card no. 19e0629) [23]. The aforementioned results concur with the conclusions of the XPS analysis. 

The morphology and microstructure of the pristine and syn- thesized hybrid ﬁller were examined via FE-SEM and EDS. Pristine BN and SiC typically form two-dimensional hexagonal ﬂakes that have smooth surfaces and a nano-sized irregular polyhedral 

repel each other, thereby leading to the formation of a particle column [24]. On the other hand, this is conﬁrmed by the almost homogeneous initial dispersion of BN particles (Fig. 4(e) and (f)) that become vertically oriented when additional nano-SiC particles are used in the binary ﬁller. This stems possibly from the specimen fabrication procedure. As mentioned in the experimental section, SiC particles were initially dispersed in the epoxy matrix and iron- oxide-coated BN particles were added to the SiC/epoxy mixture after this dispersion. The SiC particles located between the BN particles hindered BN aggregation. In contrast, widespread aggre- gation of coarse particles occurred when iron-oxide-coated SiC particles were added to the binary ﬁller. This aggregation resulted possibly from the attraction of surrounding magnetic particles to the oxide-coated SiC. Moreover, although column-like particle ag- gregation occurred in the BNeFe3O4 particle, owing to its two- dimensional shape, aggregation of the binary ﬁller led to the for- mation of a non-uniform mass of particles. 

The thermal transfer properties of randomly and vertically ori- ented particle composites were evaluated via the dependence of the thermal conductivities on the ﬁller concentration, used parti- cles, and heat transfer direction (Fig. 5). As the ﬁgure shows, the thermal conductivities of the composites all increased signiﬁcantly with increasing volume fraction of the synthesized ﬁller. This in- crease is attributed to the fact that thermally conducting ﬁller particles can easily cohere and thereby provide heat conduction paths; therefore, phonons are effectively transported, leading to an increase in the thermal conductivity. Additional SiC particles also increase the conductivity because a three-dimensional heat ﬂow path is generated by the binary ﬁller system consisting of particles of various shapes and sizes, as reported in several previous studies [25,26]. This is especially true of the vertically oriented BN com- posite that has a substantially higher through-plane conductivity than its randomly oriented counterpart; these results indicate that BN platelets are successfully re-oriented under the external mag- netic ﬁeld. Owing to the anisotropic property of the BN, vertically oriented BN generates a highly effective heat ﬂow path. The high aspect ratio of the vertically aligned BN also leads to a more efﬁ- cient connection of particles than that resulting from the alignment of initially randomly oriented BN in the same direction [21]. Moreover, additional SiC enhances the thermal conductivity and results in the highest value. This result is consistent with the FE- SEM result, which showed that non-magnetic SiC particles 

Fig. 3. Particle morphologies of (a) raw BN, (b) raw SiC, (c) BNeFe3O4, and (d) SiCeFe3O4. 

structure, respectively. Fig. 3(c) and (d) show the iron oxide nanospheres resulting from the deposition of iron oxide on the surfaces of BN and SiC. These results concur with the XPS and XRD observations and demonstrate that magnetic iron oxide nano- spheres are successfully introduced to the surfaces of BN and SiC particles by the surface treatment. 

FE-SEM cross-sectional images of the microstructure conﬁrmed that the ﬁller of the BN and BN-SiC binary composites is vertically aligned. However, the raw BN particles are randomly oriented and almost homogenously dispersed throughout the microstructure. Adding a small amount of SiC nanoparticles to the BN/epoxy composite has no effect on the visual appearance of the composite. This resulted possibly from complete coverage of the epoxy matrix by the SiC particles owing to the high surface energy of these nano- scaled particles. After the magnetic alignment of the iron-oxide- coated BN in Fig. 4(d), the two-dimensionally shaped BN particles become vertically aligned along the direction of the external magnetic ﬁeld. However, low-magniﬁcation images reveal that aggregates of the vertically aligned ﬁllers give rise to vertical column-like shapes. These columns are formed by the head-to-tail contact of magnetic BN along a line. The north and south poles of the dipolar nanomagnets attract each other, whereas approaching particles that have the same (i.e., parallel) magnetization direction 

Fig. 4. Cross-sectional images of various composite ﬁlm with low and high magniﬁcation. (a) BN composite, (b) BN/SiC composite, (c) low magniﬁcation of vertically aligned BNeFe3O4 composite, (d) high magniﬁcation of vertically aligned BNeFe3O4 composite, (e) low magniﬁcation of vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiC composite, (f) high magniﬁcation of vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiC composite, (g) low magniﬁcation of vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 composite, and (h) high magniﬁcation of vertically BNeFe3O4/ SiCeFe3O4 composite. Denoted arrows were aggregated particle mass. 

Fig. 5. The inﬂuence of surface treatment, ﬁller alignment, and ﬁller composition on thermal conductivity. (a) through-plane thermal conductivity, (b) in-plane thermal conductivity. 

generated heat ﬂow channels throughout the region, without the occurrence of particle aggregation. On the other hand, the lower conductivity of the BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 binary particle system compared to that of the vertically aligned BN composite, is corre- lated with the particle morphology; the aggregation of bulky par- ticles the generation of vertical ﬁller columns and thereby reduces the amount of ﬁller available to the heat ﬂow channel. The in-plane thermal conductivity exhibited similar trends, except for the randomly oriented ﬁller composite. In the vertically oriented BN composite, the basal plane of the BN (which has an excellent con- ductivity) is stacked primarily along the vertical direction; there- fore, this composite has a lower conductivity than its randomly oriented counterpart. SiC nanoparticles located between the BN also generate a horizontal heat ﬂow channel, and hence the 

BNeFe3O4/SiC binary system exhibits a higher in-plane thermal conductivity than other magnetically aligned composites. 

The composites were analyzed via EDS (Fig. 6) in order to conﬁrm the effect of the additional SiC particles on the particle dispersion and aggregation. As the ﬁgure shows, Si atoms that compose the SiC particle were well-dispersed throughout the composite ﬁlm in the BNeFe3O4/SiC binary ﬁller composite, and are observed especially at the bottom. This indicates that SiC particles settle at the bottom prior to epoxy curing. The ﬁller/matrix mixture was placed in a convection oven heated to 80 (cid:1)C in order to reduce the viscosity and ﬁller alignment under the magnetic ﬁeld during the composite fabrication process. During this step, SiC particles settled at the bottom owing to their high density. These particles spread the heat in the horizontal direction and vertical transfer 

Fig. 6. EDS image of (a) vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiC composite and (b) vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 composite. Schematic diagram of (c) vertically aligned BN composite, (d) vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiC composite and (e) vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 composite. 

higher modulus than the pure epoxy matrix; these higher moduli result from the hard-type ceramic ﬁllers that restrict the motion of the epoxy chain. After the BN was vertically aligned, the storage modulus of the composites decreased, owing to aggregation of the ﬁller; the stress was not well transferred when the same force was applied to the composite [27]. Moreover, the vertically aligned ﬁllers were perpendicularly oriented to the stress transfer direction because both ends were brittle when the analysis was performed. The direction of the oriented ﬁllers also contributes signiﬁcantly to degradation of the storage modulus. The lower modulus of the vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 binary ﬁller composite, compared to that of its randomly oriented BN composite, which also resulted from aggregation of the ﬁller. On the other hand, the additional SiC led to a slight increase in the mechanical property. This indicates that the three-dimensionally connected ﬁller resul- ted in a more effective transfer of stress than that occurring in the non-aligned composite. Moroever, Fig. 8(b) shows the glass tran- sition temperature (Tg) taken at the maximum value of tan d for raw epoxy and ﬁller containing composite before and after magnetic alignment. The Tg reﬂects the relaxation dynamics of the polymer chains within a system In several cases, the addition of ﬁllers plays important roles in the changes in Tg [28]. As shown in Fig. 8(b), it can be seen that the peak of tan d shifted to higher temperatures with binary ﬁller system without ﬁller alignment while the peak shifted to lower temperature after alignment and additional SiCeFe3O4 ﬁller. Those results were well corresponded with stor- age modulus. Therefore, it can be concluded that the BNeFe3O4/SiC binary ﬁller composite exhibit better performance not only thermal conductivity but also mechanical property. 

4. Conclusion


In this study, thermally conductive composite materials were fabricated via magnetic ﬁeld alignment of the vertical ﬁller. Strongly paramagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles introduced to the surfaces of the BN and SiC were characterized by XPS, XRD, and FE- SEM. The magnetic particles resulted in polarization and particle re-orientation in the epoxy matrix. The fracture surface of the composite revealed that the ﬁller was vertically aligned by the use of these particles. In addition, the dependence of the thermal conductivity of the fabricated composite containing BN and SiC particles on the ﬁller concentration was determined before and 

Fig. 7. Thermal conductivity of vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiCeFe3O4 composite as function of SiC contents and thermal conductivity enhancement ratio. 

proceeded along the generated heat ﬂow channel in the aligned BN. On the other hand, most of the Si atoms in the BNeFe3O4/ SiCeFe3O4 binary ﬁller composite were aggregated, as observed previously from the FE-SEM images. 

The dependence of the thermal conductivity on the SiC content was determined for a ﬁxed concentration (20 vol%) of the ﬁller. In the case of the composite composed of BNeFe3O4 and SiC, the maximum thermal conductivity was obtained at a SiC content of 15 vol%. The conductivity decreased slightly thereafter with SiC loading but was still higher than that of the BN/epoxy composite. Moreover, the strength of the synergistic effect can be represented by the enhancement ratio, (Fig. 7). As expected, 15 vol% of SiC resulted in the highest enhancement ratio (13%) relative to that of the BNeFe3O4/epoxy composite. 

In addition, we used DMA analysis to examine the mechanical property behavior as a function of the ﬁller composition before and after ﬁller alignment. As Fig. 8 shows, the composites all exhibit 

after particle alignment. Magnetic alignment of the BN generated vertical heat ﬂow that led to an increase in the through-plane thermal conductivity, but a decrease in the in-plane conductivity. Moreover, additional SiC ﬁller enhanced the thermal conductivity, without the occurrence of ﬁller aggregation. This enhancement is attributed to the three-dimensional interparticle structures; therefore, the SiC nanoparticles acted as heat conductive bridges (i.e., interconnectors) between the BN platelets. On the other hand, additional SiCeFe3O4 particles led to signiﬁcant aggregation of the ﬁller and hence a decrease in the thermal conductivity. 

Furthermore, when the BN/SiC ratio was varied for a ﬁxed total concentration of the ﬁller, the maximum thermal conductivity was obtained with the addition of 15 vol% of SiC. DMA analysis of the mechanical properties of the fabricated composite revealed that the storage modulus of the vertically aligned BNeFe3O4/SiC com- posite was higher than that of the other composites; this higher modulus resulted from the well-dispersed particles. Therefore, vertical alignment of the ﬁller and the hybrid ﬁller system for preparing polymer composites constitute suitable means of fabri- cating highly thermally conductive composites with acceptable mechanical properties. 

This work was supported by the Technology Innovation Program (10052903, Development of Integrated Circuit Implementation PPS Composite and 3D Modular Technology for Automotive Electronics) funded by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy (MI, Korea). 

