Self-assembled   carbon   nitride   for   photocatalytic   hydrogen   evolution and   degradation   of   p-nitrophenol 

Jingwen   Sun a,b,   Jingsan   Xu b,c,   Andrea   Grafmueller d,   Xing   Huang e,   Clemens   Liedel b, Gerardo   Algara-Siller e,   Marc   Willinger b,   Can   Yang f,  Yongsheng   Fu a,   Xin   Wang a,∗, Menny   Shalom b,g,∗∗ 

a Key  Laboratory  of  Soft  Chemistry  and  Functional  Materials,  Nanjing  University  of  Science  and  Technology,  Ministry  of  Education,  Nanjing  210094,  China b Department  of  Colloid  Chemistry,  Max   Planck  Institute  of  Colloids  and  Interfaces,  Research  Campus  Golm,  Potsdam  14424,  Germany c Ben  Gurion  University  of  the  Negev,  Israel d Department  of  Theory  and  Bio-Systems,  Max  Planck  Institute  of  Colloids  and  Interfaces,  Research  Campus  Golm,  Potsdam  14424,  Germany e Department  of  Inorganic  Chemistry,  Fritz  Haber  Institute  of  the  Max   Planck  Society,  Berlin  14195,  Germany f State  Key  Laboratory  of  Photocatalysison  Energy  and  Environment  College  of  Chemistry,  Fuzhou  University,  Fuzhou  350002,  China g Chemistry  Department,  Ben  Gurion  University  of  the  Negev,  Beersheba  009728,  Israel 

Received  13  October  2016 Received  in  revised  form  3  December  2016 Accepted  8  December  2016 Available  online  9  December  2016 

Carbon   nitride   has   attracted   signiﬁcant   interest   as   robust,   low-cost   alternative   to  metal-based   materials in   ﬁelds   such   as   photo,   electro   and   heterogeneous   catalysis.   However,   the   properties   of   the  ﬁnal   material are  hard   to  control   by  traditional   synthetic   methods   Herein,   we   introduce   a   new   strategy   of   material design   that   allows   controlling   the   desired   properties   of   the   ﬁnal   material   already   from   the   molecular level   by   sequential   solvent   treatment   of   supramolecular   aggregates   that   serve   as   the   reactants.   Due to   in   situ   formation   of   a  thermodynamic   driven   energy   levels   gradient,   the  as-prepared   carbon   nitride exhibits   almost   10   times   higher   activity   than   the   traditional   carbon   nitride   (calcined   from   melamine)   in the   hydrogen   evolution   text.   As   a  multifunctional   catalyst,   the  core-shell   like   carbon   nitride   also   shows a   superior   catalytic   degradation   activity   for   RhB   and   p-nitrophenol. 

Self-assembly  of  small  molecules  by  supramolecular  interac- tions  is  an  efﬁcient  approach  for  the  formation  of  well-deﬁned organic  crystals,  aggregates  and  other  chemical  compounds  [1–3]. The  molecular  organization  is  driven  by  the  creation  of  non- covalent  interactions,  i.e.,  electrostatic,  van  der  Waals  interactions, hydrogen  bonds  and  more  [4–6].  Among  them,  hydrogen  bonds are  very  powerful  for  controlling  molecular  self-assembly  due  to their  reversibility,  speciﬁcity,  and  directionality  [7,8].  Melamine, with  multiple  hydrogen-bonding  sites,  is  extensively  applied  as a  molecular  fragment  in  supramolecular  assemblies,  especially  in combination  with  cyanuric  acid  [7].  The  cyanuric  acid-melamine 

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2016.12.030 0926-3373/©  2016  Elsevier  B.V.  All  rights  reserved. 

complex  (CM)  is  formed  by  using  up  to  three  hydrogen  bonds between  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine  and  can  adopt  various  forms, depending  on  the  solvent  from  which  it  is  aligned  and  crystal- lized  [9].  Lately  it  was  successfully  applied  as  a  precursor  for  the synthesis  of  carbon  nitride-like  materials  [8]. 

As  a  metal-free  semiconductor,  graphitic  carbon  nitride  (g- C3N4)  materials  attracted  signiﬁcant  attention  in  the  last  years  due to  their  unique  chemical,  electronic  and  (photo)catalytic  properties [10–15].  The  latter  depend  on  the  size,  morphology,  surface  area, dispersive  ability,  light  absorption  and  ability  to  efﬁciently  sepa- rate  charges  [3,7].  Unfortunately,  C3N4,  usually  possesses  limited surface  area,  difﬁculty  to  disperse  in  solvents  and  rather  low  pho- tocatalytic  activity  [16],  if  synthesized  via  traditional  routes  from simple  monomers  (cyanamide,  melamine,  dicyandiamide  or  urea) [17].  Over  the  past  few  years,  several  templating  methods  alongside the  insertion  of  other  heteroatoms  into  C3N4 structure  [18]  were introduced  in  order  to  increase  its  performance  [19,20].  Due  to  their unique  structural,  physical  and  chemical  properties,  hollow  struc- tures  demonstrated  especially  high  activity  in  the  ﬁeld  of  photo and  heterogeneous  catalysis  and  could  also  ﬁnd  potential  applica- 

tions  in  drug  delivery,  catalysis,  gas  storage,  lithium  batteries  and nanodevices  [21]. 

Up  to  date,  the  only  way  to  synthesize  metal-free  hollow structures  is  by  using  soft  and  hard  templating  methods  [22,23]. However,  despite  recent  progress  and  a  variety  of  structures  that were  obtained  by  the  traditional  templating  methods,  they  still require  multiple  steps  and  are  considered  relatively  complicated and  time  consuming  [4].  Moreover,  the  template  is  usually  removed by  strong  acid/base  treatment  that  can  damage  the  organic  mate- rial. 

Recently,  we  and  others  demonstrated  the  advantages  of  CM supramolecular  aggregates  that  were  precipitated  from  different solvents  as  the  precursors  for  well-organized  C3N4 with  control- lable  chemical  and  photophysical  properties  [6,8].  The  solvent  plays a  key  role  for  the  determination  of  the  aggregations  shape,  size,  etc, alongside  the  strength  and  types  of  the  supramolecular  interactions due  to  thermodynamic  and  kinetic  factors.  The  solubility  of  the starting  monomers,  the  supramolecular  interactions  of  the  solvent with  the  monomers  and  the  thermodynamic  stability  of  the  formed aggregates  will  govern  the  aggregation  process.  Hence,  the  mor- phology  of  CM  aggregates  as  well  as  the  morphology,  photophysical and  catalytic  properties  of  the  ﬁnal  C3N4 are  strongly  depended on  the  solvent  from  which  the  CM  was  arranged  [24–26].  While the  role  of  the  solvent  in  the  creation  of  supramolecular  aggre- gates  followed  by  the  formation  of  ordered  C3N4-like  materials  is partially  known,  the  inﬂuences  of  additional  solvent  treatment  on the  supramolecular  interactions  and  on  the  shape  of  these  aggre- gates  are  less  explored  [27–29].  Furthermore,  to  the  best  of  our knowledge,  the  use  of  the  modiﬁed  supramolecular  complexes  as the  carbon  nitride  precusor  has  not  been  explored  before. 

Herein,  we  show  the  synthesis  of  highly  photoactive  carbon nitride  hollow  structures  by  altering  the  properties  of  the  starting CM  supramolecular  aggregates  upon  sequential  solvent  treatment. The  inﬂuence  of  the  second  solvent  on  the  supramolecular  assem- blies  is  intensively  studied.  Our  results  show  that  the  second  solvent can  lead  to  a  full  rearrangement  of  the  CM  structure  or  only  mod- ify  the  aggregate  surface  while  preserving  the  bulk  morphology, depending  on  the  solvent  polarity.  The  latter  results  in  the  creation of  different  supramolecular  crystals  along  the  assembly.  The  alter- ation  of  the  hydrogen  bond  strength  across  the  assembly  leads  to  a difference  in  the  reactivity  of  inner  and  the  outer  crystal  upon  heat- ing  at  high  temperatures.  To  investigate  the  growth  mechanism and  solvent  effect,  the  chemical  structure,  morphology  and  opti- cal  properties  of  the  resulting  carbon  nitrides  are  characterized  by XRD,  FT-IR,  SEM,  TEM,  optical  microscopy,  XPS,  UV–vis  absorption and  steady-state  ﬂuorescence  spectroscopy.  In-situ  heating  experi- ments  are  conducted  by  TEM  and  light  microscopy  under  controlled conditions,  revealing  the  growth  mechanism  of  the  hollow  struc- tures  at  high  temperature.  The  photocatalytic  activity  is  tested  by measuring  the  H2 evolution  and  the  degradation  of  Rhodamine B  (RhB)  dye  and  p-nitrophenol  (p-NP)  under  illumination  in  the presence  of  the  resulting  C3N4s. 

Microsized  mesoporous  carbon  nitride  was  prepared  via  simple calcinations  of  CM  aggregates  (with  1:1  molar  ratio  of  cyanuric  acid and  melamine)  at  550 ◦C  for  4  h  at  a  heating  rate  of  2.3 ◦C  min−1 in a  nitrogen  atmosphere.  In  a  typical  synthesis,  0.5  g  of  cyanuric  acid and  0.5  g  of  melamine  were  separately  well  dissolved  in  10  mL   and 25  mL   DMSO,  respectively.  Both  solutions  were  mixed  for  1  h  via an  automatic  shaker.  The  precipitate  after  centrifugation  is  named CM-D.  After  addition  of  H2O  (1:1,  v:v,  respective  to  DMSO),  the 

dispersion  was   mixed  and  shaken  for  another  20  h.  The  white  pow- der,  after  centrifuge  and  drying,  is  denoted  as  CM-D1H20.  After calcination  in  nitrogen  atmosphere  at  550 ◦C,  the  yellow  corre- sponding  carbon  nitride  is  named  CN-DH.  To  analyze  the  formation mechanism  of  differing  morphologies  of  C3N4,  the  aforementioned procedure  was  also  applied  with  different  solvents  and  mixing times  (H2O,  MeOH,  EtOH,  actone)  as  indicated  in  the  paper.  Carbon nitride  calcinated  from  melamine  only  was   named  as  bulk. 

Molecular  Dynamics  (MD)  Simulations  were  performed  for melamine  and  cyanuric  acid  in  all  solvents,  using  Force  ﬁeld  param- eters  obtained  from  the  database  [30]  for  melamine,  cyanuric  acid, and  solvent  boxes  of  ethanol,  methanol  and  acetone  [31].  For  DMSO, parameters  and  solvent  box  from  Supplementary  Refs.  5  and  6 respectively  were  used  [32,33].  Simulations  were  started  using single  solute  molecules  or  small  aggregates  of  one  ring,  or  three stacked  rings  of  6  solute  molecules  constructed  the  crystal  structure of  melamine-cyanuride  [34].  The  structures  were  solvated  with  the different  solvents  and  simulated  using  the  gromacs  software  [35]. The  systems  were  equilibrated  for  20  ns  using  weak  coupling,  and then  simulated  for  50  ns  with  a  0.002  ps  time  step  at  constant  tem- perature  of  310  K  and  constant  pressure  of  1  bar,  controlled  by  the Nose-Hover  Thermostat  and  Parinello  Rahman  barostat,  respec- tively.  Electrostatics  were  calculated  using  the  particle  mesh  ewald method  [36];  bonds  involving  hydrogen  atoms  were  constrained using  LINCS  [37];  water  molecules  were  kept  rigid  with  SETTLE  [38]. In  the  analysis,  h-bonds  were  determined  using  a  cut-off  radius  of 3.5  A  and  angle  of  30◦. 

Reactions  were  conducted  in  a  side-irradiated  closed  steel  reac- tor  equipped  with  a  Teﬂon  inlet,  thermocouple,  pressure  sensor, magnetic  stirring  and  thermostat,  and  connected  to  a  Schlenk  line. 30  mg   of  catalyst  was  dispersed  in  38  mL   of  the  solvent  mixture composed  of  triethanolamine  (TEOA)  and  water  in  the  ratio  of  1:9 (v:v).  Pt  nanoparticles  were  deposited  on  carbon  nitrides  from  hex- achloroplatinic  acid  (H2PtCl6)  via  in  situ  photodeposition  method. The  build-up  of  H2 pressure  was  monitored  as  a  function  of  the irradiation  time  (with  a  white  LED  array).  The  headspace  of  the reactor  was  also  analyzed  with  mass  spectrometry  (Pfeiffer  Vac- uum  Thermo  Star  GSD  301  T  gas  analyzing  system;  using  argon  as carrier  gas),  conﬁrming  the  evolved  gas  as  hydrogen. 

In  addition,  the  apparent  quantum  yield  (AQY)  for  H2 evolu- tion  was  also  measured  using  monochromatic  LED  lamps  with  band pass  ﬁlter  of  420 4.6  (the  output  section  was  shown  in  equation below,  errors  of  wavelength  were  depended  on  Guass  Simulation of  full  width  at  half  maximum),  the  intensities  was  14.3  mW  cm−1 (ILT  950  spectroradiometer).  The  irradiation  area  was  controlled  as 3  cm2.  Depending  on  the  amount  of  hydrogen  produced  by  the 3 photocatalytic  reaction  in  an  average  of  one  hour,  and  the  AQY  was calculated  as  follow: 

Where,  M  is  the  amount  of  H2 molecules  (mol),  NA  is  Avo- 1023  mol−1),  h  is  the  Planck  con  stant gadro  constant  (6.022 108  m  s−1),  S  is (6.626 the  irradiation  area  (cm2),  P  is  the  intensity  of  irradiation  light (W  cm−2),  t  is  the  photoreaction  time  (s), is  the  wavelength  of 

the  monochromatic  light  (m).  Further  experimental  details  and characterization  are  given  in  the  Supplementary  Information. 

The  photocatalytic  activity  was  evaluated  by  the  degradation  of Rhodamine  B  (RhB)  under  white  light  irradiation.  In  a  typical  pho- tocatalytic  degradation  experiment,  RhB  aqueous  solution  (5  mL, 10  mg   L−1)  and  carbon  nitride  (5  mg)   were  mixed  in  a  glass  bottle in  dark  with  continuous  stirring  for  30  min   at  room  temperature to  reach  the  adsorption–desorption  equilibrium  between  the  dye and  the  catalyst.  At  a  given  time  interval  of  irradiation,  aliquots were  withdrawn  from  the  suspension,  and  all  the  catalyst  was removed.  The  concentration  of  the  remnant  dye  was   spectropho- tometrically  monitored  by  optical  absorption  values  (at  554  nm  of UV–vis  absorption  spectra)  on  an  ultraviolet–visible  spectropho- tometer  during  the  photodegradation  process. 

A  500  W  Hg  lamp  was  used  as  the  light  source.  In  a  typical p-NP  (p-nitrophenol)  degradation  experiment,  p-NP  aqueous  solu- tion  (30  mL,   10  mg   L−1)  and  carbon  nitride  (3  mg)   were  put  in  a quartz  tube  and  then  placed  in  dark  with  continuous  stirring  for 30  min   at  room  temperature.  After  the  adsorption–desorption  equi- librium,  turned  on  the  light.  At  a  given  time  interval,  aliquots  were withdrawn  from  the  suspension,  and  all  the  catalyst  was  removed. The  concentration  of  the  remnant  p-NP  was  spectrophotometri- cally  monitored  by  optical  absorption  values  (at  317  nm  of  UV–vis absorption  spectra)  on  an  ultraviolet-visible  spectrophotometer during  the  photodegradation  process. 

Supramolecular  aggregates  were  synthesized  by  mixing  a  1:1 molar  ratio  of  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine  in  a  variety  of  solvents and  then  centrifuged  and  dried  at  60 ◦C  overnight.  The  cyanuric  acid and  melamine  complex  is  created  by  using  up  to  three  hydrogen bonds  between  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine  and  can  adopt  vari- ous  forms,  depending  on  the  solvent  from  which  it  is  aligned  and precipitated  (Supplementary  Scheme  S1).  Reactions  in  dimethyl sulfoxide  (DMSO)  were  carried  out  for  1  h,  whereas  experiments  in H2O,  ethanol  (EtOH),  methanol  (MeOH)  and  acetone  were  allowed to  proceed  for  longer  (20  h)  due  to  the  lower  solubility  of  cyanuric acid  and  melamine  in  these  solvents.  Differences  in  the  monomer solubility  and  solvent-monomer  interactions,  which  can  straightly inﬂuence  the  direction  of  hydrogen  bond  growth,  lead  to  vari- ous  morphologies  of  the  resulting  aggregates.  The  morphology  of CM  from  DMSO  (CM-D)  resembles  uniform  spheres  composed  of (cid:4)m  (Supplementary small  crystals  with  an  average  diameter  of  3 Fig.  S1a).  For  CM  from  water  (CM-H),  a  rod-like  morphology  was observed,  while  the  use  of  EtOH  (CM-E)  resulted  in  a  ﬂower-like morphology  (Supplementary  Fig.  S2a,b)  [8].  In  MeOH  or  acetone, the  shapes  of  CM  aggregates  (CM-M  and  CM-A,  respectively)  were mostly  irregular  (Supplementary  Fig.  S2c,d).  Further  investigations of  the  CM  formation  were  conducted  by  using  XRD  and  FT-IR  (Sup- plementary  Fig.  S2e,f). 

To  further  understand  the  solvent  effect  on  the  strength  of hydrogen  bonds  within  the  aggregates  and  how  the  solvent  inﬂu- ences  their  shapes  and  chemical  properties,  the  CM  aggregates prepared  from  DMSO  were  sequentially  transferred  to  another solvent  with  different  polarity  (H2O  >  MeOH  >  EtOH  >  acetone)  and mixed  for  several  hours  (labeled  as  CM-D1Hx,  CM-D1  Mx,   CM-D1Ex 

and  CM-D1Ax,  respectively,  with  “1”  indicating  1  h  complex  forma- tion  time  in  DMSO  and  “x”  indicating  the  time  in  hours  of  treatment with  the  second  solvent).  The  introduction  of  water  to  CM-D  results in  a  structural  collapse  from  spheres  to  rods  and  crystals  after  20  h, which  is  kinetically  governed  (Supplementary  Figs.  S1  and  S3a  –d). The  new  assembly  was   conﬁrmed  by  XRD  and  FT-IR  measurements (Supplementary  Fig.  S3e–f).  Notably,  in  comparison  to  CM-D,  a  new diffraction  peak  around  11.9◦ evolves  with  increasing  reaction  time for  the  CM-D1Hx,  possibly  due  to  the  different  in-plane  rearrange- ment  of  the  CM  monomers. 

In  the  same  way,  we   explored  the  inﬂuence  of  less  polar  sol- vents  on  the  supramolecular  complexes  by  immersing  the  CM-D in  MeOH,  EtOH  and  acetone.  In  contrast  to  H2O  treatment,  the original  sphere-like  morphology  is  maintained  after  mixing  in  the additional  solvent  for  20  h.  The  surface  of  the  spherical  particles, however,  changes  to  sheet-  or  stick-like  morphologies  (Fig.  1a–f). The  stability  of  the  hydrogen  bond  complexes  is  conﬁrmed  by  FT-IR and  XRD  measurements  (Supplementary  Fig.  S4). 

Our  observations  indicate  a  mechanism  in  which  the  second solvent  can  either  induce  rearrangement  of  the  supramolecular aggregate  or  only  act  as  a  surface  modiﬁer.  Crystallization  processes of  supramolecular  aggregates  are  relatively  complicated  and  con- trolled  by  both  thermodynamic  (the  creation  of  the  most  stable crystal)  and  kinetic  factors  (the  formation  of  the  ﬁrst  nucleation seed  and  the  solubility  of  the  monomers).  In  addition,  the  properties of  the  solvent  (solubility  of  monomers,  polarity)  will  dramatically inﬂuence  the  rearrangement  process.  In  our  case,  we   started  with uniform  spherical  particles  that  were  formed  by  supramolecular self-assembly  in  DMSO.  In  the  ﬁrst  case  (Supplementarys  Figs.  S2d and  S3d),  H2O  molecules  lead  to  a  rearrangement  of  this  structure with  time  due  to  the  ability  of  water  to  penetrate  into  the  CM-D aggregate  and  thus  to  form  strong  hydrogen  bonds  with  both  cya- nuric  acid  and  melamine  monomers  to  reach  a  thermodynamically more  stable  structure.  In  addition,  the  solubility  of  the  monomers in  water  is  sufﬁcient  to  kinetically  drive  this  reorganization  (Sup- plementary  Table  S1).  Hence,  in  the  beginning  the  spheres  swell slightly,  and  small  rod-like  crystals  appear.  Later  on,  the  spherical aggregates  collapse.  In  the  second  case  (Fig.  1g),  only  the  exposed interface  between  the  aggregate  and  the  second  solvent  (MeOH, EtOH  and  acetone)  was  changed  with  time.  In  this  scenario,  the less-polar  solvent  cannot  penetrate  into  the  “bulk-complex”  due  to the  lower  solubility  of  the  monomers,  but  it  can  interact  with  the surface  of  aggregates.  Consequently,  the  spherical  shape  was  fully preserved  within  the  experiment  time  (up  to  20  h),  and  only  the surface  of  the  spherical  aggregates  is  altered  to  a  sheet-  or  stick-like morphology  (further  information  is  shown  in  Supplementary  Figs. S5  and  S6).  Nevertheless,  we  note  that  this  process  is  kinetically- driven  and  that  the  aggregates  shape  can  be  changed  with  sufﬁcient reaction  time  (Supplementary  Fig.  S3d).  However,  in  this  work  we focused  mainly  on  the  modiﬁed  aggregates  due  to  the  preservation of  their  bulk  shape. 

In  order  to  gain  deeper  understanding  of  the  system  at  hand,  all atom  Molecular  Dynamics  (MD)  Simulations  were  performed  on the  starting  materials  and  the  CM  complex  in  all  solvents  (Fig.  2). Due  to  the  limitations  of  the  simulation,  our  model  consists  of  CM aggregates  with  18  solute  molecules,  thus,  the  small  aggregates  do not  remain  stable  for  long  in  any  of  the  solvents  investigated.  Nev- ertheless,  the  lifetime  of  the  larger  clusters  is  signiﬁcantly  longer in  acetone  and  EtOH  than  in  the  other  solvents.  The  tendency  for cluster  formation  of  the  molecules  is  obvious  in  the  radial  distribu- tion  functions  (RDF)  between  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine  (Fig.  2a), which  remains  larger  than  one  up  to  a  distance  of  1.2  nm  in  all  sol- vents.  However,  the  ﬁrst  coordination  peak  for  acetone  and  EtOH, 

Fig.  1.  Evolution  of  CM  aggregate  after  formation  in  DMSO  and  treatment  with  less  polar  solvent  (MeOH,  EtOH,  acetone,  respectively).  SEM  images  of  CM-D1M20  (a,b), CM-D1E20  (c,d)  and  CM-D1A20  (e,f).  (b,d,f)  show  larger  magniﬁcation  images  of  (a,c,e),  respectively.  (g)  Scheme  showing  modiﬁcation  of  CM  aggregate  transferred  from DMSO   to  MeOH,  EtOH  and  acetone. 

is  almost  a  factor  8  larger  than  for  water,  highlighting  the  stronger aggregation.  Thenceforth,  we  studied  the  propensity  of  cyanuric acid-melamine  complex  and  cyanuric  acid  to  form  hydrogen  bonds with  the  solvent.  The  hydrogen  bond  data  of  the  polar  solvents listed  in  Fig.  2b  and  c  is  consistent  with  the  solubility  data,  and  with the  different  ability  of  the  solvents  to  penetrate  and  restructure  the spherical  aggregates.  For  example,  water  forms  more  than  three times  as  many  hydrogen  bonds  with  the  solute  molecules  within the  CM  complex  than  acetone.  Inversely,  although  the  ordered aggregates  have  dissolved,  many  hydrogen  bonds  between  solute molecules  remain  in  acetone,  whereas  barely  any  are  present  in the  water  system.  This  trend  highlights  the  ability  of  the  water molecules  to  compete  with  hydrogen  bonds  within  the  crystal- structure,  and  thus  to  solvate  these  molecules  much  more  easily than  acetone.  Another  factor  that  can  play  a  major  role  is  the  long range  ordering  effects  of  solvent  molecules  around  the  CM  aggre- gate  (Fig.  2d).  Whereas,  for  water,  there  is  no  perceptible  long  range effect  of  the  starting  molecules  beyond  the  ﬁrst  hydration  shell,  the RDFs  for  both  acetone  and  EtOH,  show  three  strong  neighbor  peaks in  the  RDFs  indicating  a  much  stronger  ordering  of  the  solvent  to a  distance  of  1.5  nm.   This  suggests  a  larger  solvation  layer  around the  CM  aggregate.  Thus,  the  restructuration  of  the  supramolecular complex  in  these  solvents  required  additional  energy  in  order  to break  the  ordered  solvation  layer.  Snapshots  from  the  MD   simula- tions  are  given  in  Supplementary  Fig.  S7. 

In  the  interest  of  synthesizing  photoactive  carbon  nitride,  the CM  aggregates  were  heated  to  550 ◦C  for  4  h  under  nitrogen  atmo- sphere  with  a  heating  ramp  of  2.3 ◦C  min−1.  As  conﬁrmed  by  SEM images,  the  morphology  of  C3N4 (C3N4s  prepared  from  CM-D,  CM- H,  CM-M,   CM-E  and  CM-A  were  labeled  as  CN-D,  CN-H,  CN-M,  CN-E and  CN-A,  respectively)  strongly  depends  on  the  solvent  that  was used  for  the  formation  of  CM  aggregates  (Supplementary  Fig.  S8). In  all  cases,  the  starting  structure  is  not  fully  preserved  during  the calcination  process.  In  particular  for  CM-D,  the  sphere-like  aggre- gates  collapse  during  the  heating,  only  fractures  of  the  particle  shell remain,  and  more  irregular  and  open  spheres  morphologies  are formed.  The  formation  of  C3N4-like  materials  was  conﬁrmed  by elemental  analysis  and  electron  energy  loss  spectroscopy  (Supple- mentary  Table  S2  and  Fig.  S9).  All  samples  have  a  C/N  molar  ratio  of ∼0.6  and  contain  less  than  3%  hydrogen,  indicating  that  almost  all NH2 groups  react  during  the  condensation.  Moreover,  the  sum  of the  proportions  of  carbon,  nitrogen  and  hydrogen  indicates  a  low amount  of  oxygen,  showing  that  almost  all  the  C  O  groups  in  the cyanuric  acid  reacted  with  melamine  to  form  C3N4.  Besides,  FT-IR and  XRD  analysis  also  identiﬁed  the  C3N4-like  structure  (Supple- mentary  Fig.  S10). 

The  CM  aggregates  which  were  ﬁrst  prepared  in  DMSO  and  after- wards  modiﬁed  by  a  second  solvent  treatment  were  also  applied  as carbon  nitride  precursors  (C3N4s  prepared  from  CM-D1H20,  CM- 

Fig.  2.  Analysis  of  the  MD  trajectories.  (a)  RDF  between  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine.  (b)  Average  number  of  hydrogen  bonds  formed  between  the  CM  complex  and  the respective  solvent.  (c)  Average  number  of  hydrogen  bonds  formed  between  solute  molecules  within  the  complex  in  different  solvents.  Error  bars  represent  one  STD  of  the distribution.  (d)  RDF  for  solvent  molecules  from  cyanuric  acid. 

D1M20,  CM-D1E20  and  CM-D1A20  were  labeled  as  CN-DH,  CN-DM, CN-DE  and  CN-DA,  respectively).  As  expected,  for  the  water  system, due  to  the  almost  full  reorganization  of  the  CM  aggregate,  very  sim- ilar  C3N4 morphology  as  the  one  solely  from  water  was  achieved (Supplementary  Fig.  S11).  On  the  contrary,  the  modiﬁcation  of  only the  CM-D  surface  by  a  less  polar  second  solvent  (MeOH,  EOtH  or acetone)  resulted  almost  in  a  full  preservation  of  the  starting  spher- ical  morphology  even  after  calcination  at  high  temperatures  (Fig.  3). Hollow  sphere-like  C3N4 particles  with  holes  on  the  surface  can  be clearly  seen  in  CN-DM  and  CN-DE.  In  the  case  of  acetone  treatment of  the  supramolecular  assemblies,  the  morphology  was   even  fully kept  up  to  550 ◦C,  forming  homogeneous  C3N4 spheres. 

Due  to  the  unique  morphology  of  the  CN-DA  particles,  we will  concentrate  on  the  characterizations  of  CN-DA  compared 

the  growth  mechanism  of  the  carbon  nitride  materials  from  the supramolecular  precursors  at  high  temperatures,  in-situ  heating experiments  during  optical  microscopy  (Supplementary  Fig.  S12) or  inside  a  TEM  (Supplementary  Figs.  S13  and  S14,  Fig.  4a–e) were  conducted,  respectively.  In  both  samples,  the  supramolecular complexes  exhibit  platelets  of  hexagonal  shape.  For  CM-D  the  mor- phology  changes  to  a  sheet-like  structure.  However,  the  heating experiments  of  the  CN-DA  show  that  in  this  case  the  spheres  shrink and  that  the  inner  part  diffuses  toward  the  shell  of  the  spheres  (see Supplementary  Fig.  S14).  High  resolution  imaging  of  the  product 

obtained  after  the  heating  experiment  reveals  a  structure  consist- ing  of  agglomerated,  disordered  and  bent  carbon  nitride  sheets (see  Fig.  4e  and  EELS  data  in  the  Supplementary  Fig.  S9).  A  closer inspection  of  the  morphological  changes  monitored  during  the  in- situ  heating  in  the  microscope  (Supplementary  Fig.  S14)  discloses that  individual  hexagonally  shaped  platelets  of  the  supramolecular structure  preserve  their  shape  up  to  around  500 ◦C.  Thus,  CN-DA preserves  the  sphere-like  structure  with  higher  material  intensity in  the  outer  part  compare  to  the  inner  one  (Fig.  4e  inset).  The electron  beam  dose  was   kept  at  a  minimum  in  order  to  reduce beam-induced  artifacts.  Final  comparison  of  structures  that  were followed  during  heating  with  structures  that  were  not  illuminated by  the  electron  beam  during  the  heating  experiment  did  not  show any  detectable  morphological  differences. 

Additional  evidence  for  the  formation  of  C3N4 was   acquired by  X-ray  photoelectron  spectroscopy  (XPS)  measurements  of  CN- DA.  As  shown  in  Fig.  4f,g,  the  N  1s  peak  in  XPS  spectrum  can be  resolved  into  three  peaks  centered  at  the  binding  energies  of 398.6  eV,  400.3  eV  and  401.3  eV,  belonging  to  the  C  N  C,  N  (C)3 and  N  H2 species,  respectively  [39].  The  C  1  s  spectra  of  CN-DA  can be  constructed  from  a  superposition  of  three  peaks  at  293.00  eV, (cid:5)-(cid:5)*  transition  loss 284.60  eV  and  288.10  eV,  corresponding  to  the peak,  sp2 C  C  bonds  and  to  N  C  N  species,  respectively.  Similar results  were  also  observed  with  CN-D  in  Supplementary  Fig.  S8c,d. 

Fig.  3.  Information  of  C3N4s  calcinated  from  CMs   after  a  second  solvent  treatment.  SEM  images  of  CN-DM  (a,b),  CN-DE  (c,d),  CN-DA(e,f).  (b,d,f)  show  larger  magniﬁcation images   of  (a,c,e),  respectively. 

Fig.  4.  Structural  evolution  of  CM-DA  during  heating  up  to  550 ◦C.  TEM  images  of  CM-DA  at  room  temperature  (a),  during  heating  at  500 ◦C  (b)  and  550 ◦C  (c)  and  after keeping   the  temperature  at  550 ◦C  for  another  1  h  (d,e).  Inset  is  the  TEM  image  of  CN-DA  after  calcination.  (f,g)  N  1s  and  C  1s  core-level  XPS  spectra  of  CN-DA.  (h)  Mechanism of   the  formation  of  sphere-like  C3N4  from  CM  aggregates  (CM-DM,  CM-DE  or  CM-DA). 

These  assignments  are  in  good  agreement  with  the  EELS  data  and previous  investigations  of  carbon  nitride  [39]. 

aggregates  may   help  to  prevent  the  overall  structure  from  collaps- ing  at  high  temperatures. 

Based  on  the  above,  we  assume  that  the  preservation  of  the starting  morphology  is  due  to  the  formation  of  two   different  CM supramolecular  crystals  with  altered  strength  of  hydrogen  bonds which  react  differently  upon  heating  (Fig.  4f).  As  shown  before (Fig.  1)  the  second  solvent  treatment  of  CM  aggregates  results  in the  modiﬁcation  of  the  surface  structures  compared  to  the  bulk.  In addition,  due  to  the  surface  reorganization  of  the  CM  aggregates  in the  presence  of  a  less  polar  solvent  compared  to  the  initial  DMSO, the  hydrogen  bonds  between  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine  become stronger.  Hence,  upon  heating  the  two  crystals  may   possess  differ- ent  diffusion  rates  and  melting  properties  [39,40].  In  addition,  the stronger  hydrogen-bonds  between  cyanuric  acid  and  melamine  in the  outer  layer  compared  to  the  inner  part  of  the  supramolecular 

In  order  to  evaluate  the  photoactivity  of  all  the  carbon  nitride materials  compared  to  pristine  C3N4 (calcinated  from  melamine), we  measured  the  hydrogen  evolution  in  a  water/triethanolamine (TEOA)  solution  with  Pt  as  co-catalyst  under  white  light  illumina- tion  (Fig.  5a).  Very  interestingly,  all  carbon  nitride  materials  that were  synthesized  by  sequential  two–solvent  treatment  demon- strated  more  than  two   times  higher  photoactivity  compared  to  the carbon  nitride  from  the  single  solvent  system.  Moreover,  the  hydro- gen  production  of  the  best  C3N4 photocatalyst  is  approximately  ten times  as  high  as  the  hydrogen  production  from  bulk  C3N4 (the  one 

Fig.  5.  Photocatalytic  H2 production.  (a)  Time  courses  of  H2 production  from  water  under  white  LED  irradiation,  the  error  bars  stand  for  3  different  measurements.  (b)  Cycling measurements  of  H2 generation  of  CN-DA  and  bulk  (carbon  nitride  calcinated  from  melamine). 

that  was  prepared  form  melamine  only  as  a  precursor).  In  addi- tion,  the  CN-DA  shows  AQY  of  0.96%,  measured  by  monochromatic LED  lamps  with  band  pass  ﬁlter  of  420 4.6.  The  stability  of  the new  formed  C3N4 was  investigated  with  four  consecutive  runs  of the  photocatalytic  reaction  (for  simplicity,  we  show  here  only  CN- DA),  maintaining  more  than  70%  of  the  initial  activity  after  40  h (Fig.  5b,  Supplementary  Fig.  S15),  demonstrating  good  chemical  and photophysical  stability.  Moreover,  the  sphere-like  morphology  of CN-DA  was  fully  preserved  (Supplementary  Fig.  S16),  indicating  the recyclability  of  the  catalyst. 

The  superior  catalytic  activity  of  CN-DA  was  further  demon- strated  by  the  degradation  of  RhB  and  p-nitrophenol  (p-NP).  As shown  in  Supplementary  Fig.  S17,  CN-DA  exhibited  the  highest photocatalytic  activity,  especially  in  the  ﬁrst  20  min.  Fig.  6  and Supplementary  Fig.  S18  show  the  degradation  of  p-NP,  which  is considered  to  be  much  more  stable  than  the  organic  dyes.  Already  in ∼50%  after  only the  absence  of  co-catalyst,  CN-DA  photodegraded 80  min,  while  the  bulk-C3N4 showed  negligible  activity.  After  the addition  of  5  wt%  Pd  as  co-catalyst,  the  degradation  was  completed in  80  min.  It  is  worth  mentioning  that  the  bulk-C3N4/Pd  showed lower  activity  even  compared  to  the  bare  CN-DA.  In  addition,  the CN-DA  maintained  more  than  90%  of  the  initial  activity  during  4 sequential  cycles. 

In  general,  the  photocatalytic  activity  depends  on  the  surface area  (active  catalytic  sites),  optical  absorption  (light  harvesting properties)  and  on  the  photophysical  properties  of  the  photocat- alyst,  i.e.,  the  increase  of  the  life  time  of  electrons  and  holes  under 

illumination  by  the  creation  of  defects  sites,  heterojunction  and more.  From  the  absorption  spectra  (Fig.  7a)  and  the  hydrogen  evo- lution  rates,  we  can  estimate  that  the  light  harvesting  properties was  not  the  crucial  reason  for  the  photoactivity  improvement.  In order  to  determine  whether  the  surface  area  or  the  electronic  prop- erties  are  responsible  for  the  high  activity,  we  plot  the  hydrogen evolution  rate  as  a  function  of  the  surface  area  in  Fig.  7b.  In  general, the  surface  area  is  related  to  a  material’s  photoactivity  due  to  the increased  number  of  active  sites  for  the  reaction.  Such  a  rough  trend is  observable  also  for  our  materials.  However,  most  of  the  carbon nitrides  exhibit  different  photoactivity  for  similar  surface  areas  (for example,  compare  the  different  H2 evolution  for  materials  with  a surface  area  of  roughly  70  m2 g−1,  which  differs  by  a  factor  of  more than  two). 

Photoluminescence  (PL)  is  very  useful  technique  to  investigate the  charge  transfer  properties  of  the  given  photocatalysts.  As  shown in  Fig.  7c,  the  ﬂuorescence  of  CN-D  and  CN-DA  is  quenched  com- pared  to  the  pristine  C3N4.  Moreover,  the  introduction  of  acetone in  the  synthetic  procedure  (CN-DA)  results  in  increased  ﬂuores- cence  quenching.  The  quenching  of  the  emission  intensity  indicates that  the  relaxation  of  a  fraction  of  photocarriers  occurs  via  a  non- radiative  pathway,  presumably  through  charge  transfer  of  electrons and  holes  to  new  localized/surface  states. 

that enhanced  photoactivity  is  mainly  due  to  the  alteration  of  the  elec- tronic  properties.  Combining  the  inﬂuence  of  the  second  solvent on  chemical  and  photophysical  properties  and  the  high  photoac- 

Fig.  7.  (a)  UV–vis  absorbance  of  differing  C3N4 catalysts.  (b)  H2 production  vs.  the  surface  area.  (c)  PL  spectra  of  differing  C3N4 catalysts.  (d)  Conceptual  scheme  of  photocatalytic progress  on  carbon  nitride  materials  (CN-DM,  CN-DE,  CN-DA). 

tivity  of  carbon  nitride  materials,  we  propose  that  the  differences between  the  starting  CM  crystals  in  the  shell  of  spherical  assemblies result  in  the  formation  of  C3N4 with  a  gradient  in  the  position  of energy  levels,  i.e.,  valence  (VB)  and  conduction  band  (CB)  (Fig.  7d). The  preservation  of  the  spherical  structure  in  the  ﬁnal  C3N4 sug- gests  that  the  outer  crystals  in  the  CM-DA  are  thermodynamically more  stable  compared  to  the  inner  crystals.  Due  to  these  differ- ences,  the  outer  C3N4 is  supposed  to  possess  energy  bands  which are  slightly  downshifted  compare  to  the  inner  layer,  forming  a heterojunction  structure  which  further  improves  the  charge  sep- aration  process.  Thus,  the  introduction  of  sequential  two–solvent treatment  as  a  modiﬁer  of  supramolecular  assemblies  leads  not only  to  precise  control  of  the  carbon  nitride  structure  but  to  the alteration  of  the  photophysical  and  catalytic  properties. 

In  conclusion,  we  demonstrated  a  new,  facile  and  efﬁcient “template-free”  method  to  synthesize  highly  ordered  carbon nitride  materials  with  controllable  photophysical  and  catalytic properties,  simply  via  the  alteration  of  the  morphology  of  starting supramolecular  precursors  by  different  solvents.  The  kinetic  and thermodynamic  roles  of  sequential  two-solvent  treatment  on  the supramolecular  aggregates  were  experimentally  and  theoretically studied.  We   showed  that  sequential  solvent  introduction  can  lead to  a  full  structural  rearrangement  or  only  to  the  modiﬁcation  of  the outer  shell  of  supramolecular  aggregates  by  the  creation  of  a  gra- dient  in  hydrogen  bonds  interaction  strength  across  the  aggregate. 

In-situ  HRTEM  measurements  revealed  that  the  surface  modiﬁca- tion  of  the  starting  supramolecular  complexes  leads  to  a  different mechanism  of  material  growth  at  high  temperatures.  Using  these modiﬁed  cyanuric  acid-melamine  aggregates  as  the  carbon  nitride precursor  leads  to  the  formation  of  hollow  spheres  with  superior photocatalytic  activity.  This  work  opens  the  possibilities  for  the facile  synthesis  of  many  catalytic  materials  with  the  possibility  to design  their  ﬁnal  properties  already  on  the  monomer  level.  More- over,  our  ﬁndings  signiﬁcantly  improve  our  understanding  on  the role  of  the  solvent  in  supramolecular  self-assembly  alongside  the mechanism  behind  high  temperature  reactions. 

We  thank  Prof.  Markus  Antonietti  and,  Dr.  Davide  Esposito  for fruitful  discussion.  We   would  also  like  to  thank  the  technical  staff at  MPIKG  and  our  group  members  for  performing  service  measure- ments  such  as  SEM,  elemental  analysis.  This  work  was  supported by  NSF  of  China  (No.  51572125),  the  Fundamental  Research  Funds for  the  Central  Universities  (Nos.  20915011311,  30916014103)  and PAPD  of  Jiangsu. 

Supplementary  data  associated  with  this  article  can  be  found, in  the  online  version,  at  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2016. 12.030. 

